A comprehensive review of digital twin—part 2: roles of uncertainty quantification and optimization, a battery digital twin, and perspectives

As an emerging technology in the era of Industry 4.0, digital twin is gaining unprecedented attention because of its promise to further optimize process design, quality control, health monitoring, decision- and policy-making, and more, by comprehensively modeling the physical world as a group of interconnected digital models. In a two-part series of papers, we examine the fundamental role of different modeling techniques, twinning enabling technologies, and uncertainty quantification and optimization methods commonly used in digital twins. This second paper presents a literature review of key enabling technologies of digital twins, with an emphasis on uncertainty quantification, optimization methods, open-source datasets and tools, major findings, challenges, and future directions. Discussions focus on current methods of uncertainty quantification and optimization and how they are applied in different dimensions of a digital twin. Additionally, this paper presents a case study where a battery digital twin is constructed and tested to illustrate some of the modeling and twinning methods reviewed in this two-part review. Code and preprocessed data for generating all the results and figures presented in the case study are available on Github.

A Survey on Digital Twin: Definitions, Characteristics, Applications, and Design Implications

When, in 1956, Artificial Intelligence (AI) was officially declared a research field, no one would have ever predicted the huge influence and impact its description, prediction, and prescription capabilities were going to have on our daily lives. In parallel to continuous advances in AI, the past decade has seen the spread of broadband and ubiquitous connectivity, (embedded) sensors collecting descriptive high dimensional data, and improvements in big data processing techniques and cloud computing. The joint usage of such technologies has led to the creation of digital twins, artificial intelligent virtual replicas of physical systems. Digital Twin (DT) technology is nowadays being developed and commercialized to optimize several manufacturing and aviation processes, while in the healthcare and medicine fields this technology is still at its early development stage. This paper presents the results of a study focused on the analysis of the state-of-the-art definitions of DT, the investigation of the main characteristics that a DT should possess, and the exploration of the domains in which DT applications are currently being developed. The design implications derived from the study are then presented: they focus on socio-technical design aspects and DT lifecycle. Open issues and challenges that require to be addressed in the future are finally discussed.

An application framework of digital twin and its case study

With the rapid development of virtual technology and data acquisition technology, digital twin (DT) technology was proposed and gradually become one of the key research directions of intelligent manufacturing. However, the research of DT for product life cycle management is still in the theoretical stage, the application framework and application methods are not clear, and the lack of referable application cases is also a problem. In this paper, the related research and application of DT technology are systematically studied. Then the concept and characteristics of DT are interpreted from both broad sense and narrow sense. On this basis, an application framework of DT for product lifecycle management is proposed. In physical space, the total-elements information perception technology of production is discussed in detail. In the information processing layer, three main function modules, including data storage, data processing and data mapping, are constructed. In virtual space, this paper describes the implementation process of full parametric virtual modeling and the construction idea for DT application subsystems. At last, a DT case of a welding production line is built and studied. Meanwhile, the implementation scheme, application process and effect of this case are detail described to provide reference for enterprises.

Applications of Digital Twin across Industries: A Review

One of the most promising technologies that is driving digitalization in several industries is Digital Twin (DT). DT refers to the digital replica or model of any physical object (physical twin). What differentiates DT from simulation and other digital or CAD models is the automatic bidirectional exchange of data between digital and physical twins in real-time. The benefits of implementing DT in any sector include reduced operational costs and time, increased productivity, better decision making, improved predictive/preventive maintenance, etc. As a result, its implementation is expected to grow exponentially in the coming decades as, with the advent of Industry 4.0, products and systems have become more intelligent, relaying on collection and storing incremental amounts of data. Connecting that data effectively to DTs can open up many new opportunities and this paper explores different industrial sectors where the implementation of DT is taking advantage of these opportunities and how these opportunities are taking the industry forward. The paper covers the applications of DT in 13 different industries including the manufacturing, agriculture, education, construction, medicine, and retail, along with the industrial use case in these industries.

Building a right digital twin with model engineering

In recent years, the concept of digital twin (DT) is attracting more and more attention from researchers and engineers. But there is still no consensus on what a right DT is. On one hand, some common models are renamed as DTs. On the other hand, some DTs extremely pursue 'the same' as physical objects, which bring unnecessary complexities to them. In this paper, we try to answer two questions from the point of view of model engineering: how to define a right digital twin, and how to build a right digital twin. The concept and related technologies of model engineering are introduced. Some basic principles and a set of metrics for a right DT are given. An evolutionary concurrent modeling method for DT (ECoM4DT) is proposed not only inheriting the theory from classic M&S methods but also highlighting the characteristics of DT compared with traditional models to systemically guide the DT modeling process.   

Characterising the Digital Twin: A systematic literature review

While there has been a recent growth of interest in the Digital Twin, a variety of definitions employed across industry and academia remain. There is a need to consolidate research such to maintain a common understanding of the topic and ensure future research efforts are to be based on solid foundations. Through a systematic literature review and a thematic analysis of 92 Digital Twin publications from the last ten years, this paper provides a characterisation of the Digital Twin, identification of gaps in knowledge, and required areas of future research. In characterising the Digital Twin, the state of the concept, key terminology, and associated processes are identified, discussed, and consolidated to produce 13 characteristics (Physical Entity/Twin; Virtual Entity/Twin; Physical Environment; Virtual Environment; State; Realisation; Metrology; Twinning; Twinning Rate; Physical-to-Virtual Connection/Twinning; Virtual-to-Physical Connection/Twinning; Physical Processes; and Virtual Processes) and a complete framework of the Digital Twin and its process of operation. Following this characterisation, seven knowledge gaps and topics for future research focus are identified: Perceived Benefits; Digital Twin across the Product Life-Cycle; Use-Cases; Technical Implementations; Levels of Fidelity; Data Ownership; and Integration between Virtual Entities; each of which are required to realise the Digital Twin.

Digital twin in healthcare: Recent updates and challenges

As simulation is playing an increasingly important role in medicine, providing the individual patient with a customised diagnosis and treatment is envisaged as part of future precision medicine. Such customisation will become possible through the emergence of digital twin (DT) technology. The objective of this article is to review the progress of prominent research on DT technology in medicine and discuss the potential applications and future opportunities as well as several challenges remaining in digital healthcare. A review of the literature was conducted using PubMed, Web of Science, Google Scholar, Scopus and related bibliographic resources, in which the following terms and their derivatives were considered during the search: DT, medicine and digital health virtual healthcare. Finally, analyses of the literature yielded 465 pertinent articles, of which we selected 22 for detailed review. We summarised the application examples of DT in medicine and analysed the applications in many fields of medicine. It revealed encouraging results that DT is being increasing applied in medicine. Results from this literature review indicated that DT healthcare, as a key fusion approach of future medicine, will bring the advantages of precision diagnose and personalised treatment into reality.

Digital Twin in Industry: State-of-the-Art

Digital twin (DT) is one of the most promising enabling technologies for realizing smart manufacturing and Industry 4.0. DTs are characterized by the seamless integration between the cyber and physical spaces. The importance of DTs is increasingly recognized by both academia and industry. It has been almost 15 years since the concept of the DT was initially proposed. To date, many DT applications have been successfully implemented in different industries, including product design, production, prognostics and health management, and some other fields. However, at present, no paper has focused on the review of DT applications in industry. In an effort to understand the development and application of DTs in industry, this paper thoroughly reviews the state-of-the-art of the DT research concerning the key components of DTs, the current development of DTs, and the major DT applications in industry. This paper also outlines the current challenges and some possible directions for future work.

Digital twin modeling

The digital twin is an emerging and vital technology for digital transformation and intelligent upgrade. Driven by data  and  model,  the  digital  twin  can  perform  monitoring,  simulation,  prediction,  optimization,  and  so  on. Specifically, the digital twin modeling is the core for accurate portrayal of the physical entity, which enables the digital twin to deliver the functional services and satisfy the application requirements. Therefore, this paper provides systematic research of current studies on the digital twin modeling. Since the digital twin model is a faithful reflection of the digital twin modeling performance, a comprehensive and insightful analysis of digital twin models is given first from the perspective of the application field, hierarchy, discipline, dimension, universality, and functionality. Based on the analysis of digital twin models, current studies on the digital twin modeling are classified and analyzed according to the six modeling aspects within the digital twin modeling theoretical system proposed in our previous work. Meanwhile, enabling technologies and tools for the digital twin modeling are investigated and summarized. Finally, observations and future research recommendations are presented.   

Digital Twin Networks: A Survey

Digital twin network (DTN) is an emerging network that utilizes digital twin (DT) technology to create the virtual twins of physical objects. DTN realizes co-evolution between physical and virtual spaces through DT modeling, communication, computing, data processing technologies. In this article, we present a comprehensive survey of DTN to explore the potentiality of DT. First, we elaborate key features and definitions of DTN. Next, the key technologies and the technical challenges in DTN are discussed. Furthermore, we depict the typical application scenarios, such as manufacturing, aviation, healthcare, 6G networks, intelligent transportation systems, and urban intelligence in smart cities. Finally, the new trends and open research issues related to DTN are pointed out.

Digital Twin of City: Concept Overview

This article presents the concept of the digital twin of a city. The urban economy is a complex multi-vector system. Creating a single digital twin of such a system is now a difficult task to solve. In this article the concept of a digital twin of a city is presented. The authors propose an evolutionary approach to this problem, according to which digital twins of individual elements of the urban environment are consistently built on a single hardware and software platform. These digital twins are linked in a single cooperative system that allows one digital twin to use data produced by other digital twins. The article gives the definition and architecture of such a system. It describes the classes of  models that can be used to create digital twins. Special attention is paid to neural network models and models for data analysis. The information infrastructure of the digital twin of a city, including sensory networks, data cleansing mechanisms and nebulous calculations, is considered.

Digital Twin Paradigm: A Systematic Literature Review 

Manufacturing enterprises are facing the need to align themselves to the new information technologies(IT) and respond to the new challenges of variable market demand. One of the key enablers of this IT revolution toward Smart Manufacturing is the  digital twin (DT).  It embeds a "virtual" image of the reality constantly synchronized with the real operating scenario to provide sound information (knowledge model) to reality interpretation model to draw sound decisions. The paper aims at providing an up-to date picture of the main DT components, their features and interaction  problems. The paper aims at clearly tracing the ongoing research and technical challenges in conceiving and building DTs as well, according to different application domains and related technologies. To this purpose, the main questions answered here are: 'What is a Digital Twin?' Where is appropriate to use a Digital Twin?; 'When has a Digital Twin to be developed?'; 'Why should a Digital Twin be used?'; 'How to design and implement a Digital Twin?';  'What are the main challenges of implementing a Digital Twin?'. This study tries to answer to the previous questions funding on a wide systematic literature review of scientific research, tools, and technicalities in different application domains.

Digital Twin Requirements in the Context of Industry 4.0

Digital Twin (DT) is being considered a significant enabler for Industry 4.0  initiatives. Within Industry 4.0, the amount of digital product information generated and collected over the entire lifecycle has been growing. Current information and communication technologies, including data storage, data processing, and wireless data transmission, may be leveraged to digitally mirror the lifecycle of a corresponding physical product with increasing level of detail. A DT creates a link between physical products and their virtual models with more comprehensive data and accumulation of knowledge. Therefore, a DT may be applied to enhance simulation, traceability and to support the offering of value-added services along the lifecycle. However, the definition of a DT and its requirements are not yet fully established. The characteristics a DT model should possess to be widely used in manufacturing remains an open question in the literature. The concept is still broad and dependent on the lifecycle stage and industry sector of application. Therefore, the objective of this paper is to propose an initial synthesis of DT requirements based on a literature review and industry interviews. The literature review focuses on the content analysis of papers published from 2010 to 2018 and indexed in the ISI Web of Science database. The interviews were conducted with industry representatives in Brazil. The results show that DT requirements are related to real-time data, integration, and fidelity. Besides, it shows that industry requirements are close to literature and the actual implementation of DT is the future of research in this field. 

Digital Twin Technology Challenges and Applications: A Comprehensive Review

A digital twin is a virtual representation of a physical object or process capable of collecting information from the real environment to represent, validate and simulate the physical twin's present and future behavior. It is a key enabler of data-driven decision making, complex systems monitoring, product validation and simulation and object lifecycle management. As an emergent technology, its widespread implementation is increasing in several domains such as industrial, automotive, medicine, smart cities, etc. The objective of this systematic literature review is to present a comprehensive view on the DT technology and its implementation challenges and limits in the most relevant domains and applications in engineering and beyond.

Digital Twin: Enabling Technologies, Challenges and Open Research

Digital Twin technology is an emerging concept that has become the centre of attention for industry and, in more recent years, academia. The advancements in industry 4.0 concepts have facilitated its growth, particularly in the manufacturing industry. The Digital Twin is defined extensively but is best described as the effortless integration of data between a physical and virtual machine in either direction. The challenges, applications, and enabling technologies for Artificial Intelligence, Internet of Things (IoT) and Digital Twins are presented. A review of publications relating to Digital Twins is performed, producing a categorical review of recent papers. The review has categorised them by research areas: manufacturing, healthcare and smart cities, discussing a range of papers that reflect these areas and the current state of research. The paper provides an assessment of the enabling technologies, challenges and open research for Digital Twins.

Digital Twin: Generalization, characterization and implementation

Digital Twin is one of the promising digital technologies being developed at present to support digital trans-formation and decision making in multiple industries. While the concept of a Digital Twin is nearly 20 years old, it continues to evolve as it expands to new industries and use cases. This has resulted in a continually increasing  variety of definitions that threatens to dilute the concept and lead to ineffective implementations of the technology. There is a need for a consolidated and generalized definition, with clearly established characteristics to distinguish what constitutes a Digital Twin and what does not. This paper reviews 46 Digital Twin definitions given in the literature over the past ten years to propose a generalized definition that encompasses the breadth of  options available and provides a detailed characterization which includes criteria to distinguish the Digital Twin from other digital technologies. Next, a process and considerations for the implementation of Digital Twins is presented through a case study. Digital Twin future needs and opportunities are also outlined.   

Digital Twin: Origin to Future

Digital Twin (DT) refers to the virtual copy or model of any physical entity (physical twin) both of which are interconnected via exchange of data in real time. Conceptually, a DT mimics the state of its physical twin in real time and vice versa. Application of DT includes real-time monitoring, designing/planning, optimization, maintenance, remote access, etc. Its implementation is expected to grow exponentially in the coming decades. The advent of Industry 4.0 has brought complex industrial systems that are more autonomous, smart, and highly interconnected. These systems generate considerable amounts of data useful for several applications such as improving performance, predictive maintenance, training, etc. A sudden influx in the number of publications related to 'Digital Twin' has led to confusion between different terminologies related to the digitalization of industries. Another problem that has arisen due to the growing popularity of DT is a lack of consensus on the description of DT as well as so many different types of DT, which adds to the confusion. This paper intends to consolidate the different types of DT and different definitions of DT throughout the literature for easy identification of DT from the rest of the complimentary terms such as 'product avatar', 'digital thread', 'digital model', and 'digital shadow'. The paper looks at the concept of DT since its inception to its predicted future to realize the value it can bring to certain sectors. Understanding the characteristics and types of DT while weighing its pros and cons is essential for any researcher, business, or sector before investing in the technology.

Dimensions of Digital Twin Applications - A Literature Review

The use of Digital Twins has gained attraction in research and practice in recent years. Digital Twins are virtual representations of physical objects and they can be connected with their physical counterparts. Through this connection, Digital Twins contribute to the convergence of the real and the virtual world. While existing literature reviews focus strongly on the manufacturing industry, this paper analyzes Digital Twin applications across industries. Based on a systematic literature review, this paper examines 87 Digital Twin applications and proposes a classification scheme with six dimensions to describe the applications identified. The concept of Digital Twins is currently still underrepresented in Information Systems research, which opens up further research opportunities. 

Enabling technologies and tools for digital twin

Digital twin is revolutionizing industry. Fired by sensor updates and history data, the sophisticated models can mirror almost every facet of a product, process or service. In the future, everything in the physical world would be replicated in the digital space through digital twin technology. As a cutting-edge technology, digital twin has received a lot of attention. However, digital twin is far from realizing their potential, which is a complex system and long-drawn process. Researchers must model all the different parts of the objects or systems. Varied types of data needed to be collected and merged. Many researchers and participators in engineering are not clear which technologies and tools should be used. 5-dimension digital twin model provides reference guidance for under-standing and implementing digital twin. From the perspective of 5-dimension digital twin model, this paper tries to investigate and summarize the frequently-used enabling technologies and tools for digital twin to provide technologies and tools references for the applications of digital twin in the future.   

How to tell the difference between a model and a digital twin

"When I use a word, it means whatever I want it to mean": Humpty Dumpty in Alice's Adventures Through The Looking Glass, Lewis Carroll. "Digital twin" is currently a term applied in a wide variety of ways. Some differences are variations from sector to sector, but definitions within a sector can also vary significantly. Within engineering, claims are made regarding the benefits of using digital twinning for design, optimisation, process control, virtual testing, predictive maintenance, and lifetime estimation. In many of its usages, the distinction between a model and a digital twin is not made clear. The danger of this variety and vagueness is that a poor or inconsistent definition and explanation of a digital twin may lead people to reject it as just hype, so that once the hype and the inevitable backlash are over the final level of interest and use (the "plateau of productivity") may fall well below the maximum potential of the technology. The basic components of a digital twin (essentially a model and some data) are generally comparatively mature and well-understood. Many of the aspects of using data in models are similarly well-understood, from long experience in model validation and verification and from development of boundary, initial and loading conditions from measured 
values. However, many interesting open questions exist, some connected with the volume and speed of data, some connected with reliability and uncertainty, and some to do with dynamic model updating. In this paper we highlight the essential differences between a model and a digital twin, outline some of the key benefits of using digital twins, and suggest directions for further research to fully exploit the potential of the approach.

Impactful Digital Twin in the Healthcare Revolution

Over the last few decades, our digitally expanding world has experienced another significant digitalization boost because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Digital transformations are changing every aspect of this world. New technological innovations are springing up continuously, attracting increasing attention and investments. Digital twin, one of the highest trending technologies of recent years, is now joining forces with the healthcare sector, which has been under the spotlight since the outbreak of COVID-19. This paper sets out to promote a better understanding of digital twin technology, clarify some common misconceptions, and review the current trajectory of digital twin applications in healthcare. Furthermore, the functionalities of the digital twin in different life stages are summarized in the context of a digital twin model in healthcare. Following the Internet of Things as a service concept and digital twining as a service model supporting Industry 4.0, we propose a paradigm of digital twinning everything as a healthcare service, and different groups of physical entities are also clarified for clear reference of digital twin architecture in healthcare. This research discusses the value of digital twin technology in healthcare, as well as current challenges and insights for future research.

Literature review of digital twin in healthcare

This article aims to make a bibliometric literature review using systematic scientific mapping and  content analysis of digital twins in healthcare to know the evolution, domain, keywords, content type, and kind and purpose of digital twin's implementation in healthcare, so a consolidation and future improvement of existing knowledge can be made and gaps for new studies can be identified. The increase in publications of digital twins in healthcare is quite recent and it is still concentrated in the domain of technology sources. The subject is majorly concentrated in patient's digital twin group and in precision medicine and aspects, issues and/or policies subgroups, although the publications keywords mirror it only at the group side. Digital twins in healthcare are probably stepping out of the infancy phase. On the other hand, digital twins in hospital group and the device and facilities management subgroups are more mature with all knowledge gathered from the manufacturing sector. There is an absence of some publication’s types in general, device and care subgroup and no whole body or hospital digital twin was reported. Based on the presented arguments, guidelines for future research were presented: advance in the creation of general frameworks, in subgroups not as much explored, and in groups and subgroups already explored, but that need more advancement to achieve the main goals of a whole human or hospital digital twin with the main issues resolved.  

Review of digital twin about concepts, technologies, and industrial applications 

Various kinds of engineering software and digitalized equipment are widely applied through the lifecycle of industrial products. As a result, massive data of different types are being produced. However, these data are hysteretic and isolated from each other, leading to low efficiency and low utilization of these valuable data. Simulation based on theoretical and static model has been a conventional and powerful tool for the verification, validation, and optimization of a system in its early planning stage, but no attention is paid to the simulation application during system run-time. With the development of new-generation information and digitalization technologies, more data can be collected, and it is time to find a way for the deep application of all these data. As a result, the concept of digital twin has aroused much concern and is developing rapidly. Dispute and discussions around concepts, paradigms, frameworks, applications, and technologies of digital twin are on the rise both in academic and industrial communities. After a complete search of several databases and careful selection ac-cording to the proposed criteria, 240 academic publications about digital twin are identified and classified. This paper conducts a comprehensive and in-depth review of these literatures to analyze digital twin from the perspective of concepts, technologies, and industrial applications. Research status, evolution of the concept, key enabling technologies of three aspects, and fifteen kinds of industrial applications in respective lifecycle phase are  demonstrated in detail. Based on this, observations and future work recommendations for digital twin research are presented in the form of different lifecycle phases.   

The Digital Twin Revolution in Healthcare

Digital Twin technology entered our lives in the fields of production and engineering at the beginning with Industry 4.0, and it has also shown itself with studies that can be evaluated as revolutionary in the field of health. The Digital Twin is a digital replica that allows modeling the state of a physical asset or system. In the healthcare field, serious steps have been taken in creating Digital Twins of patients as well as Digital Twins of medical devices. The Digital Twin of the patient is created as a result of transferring the  patient's physical characteristics and changes in the body to the digital environment. This technology offers innovative and definitive solutions for correct diagnosis and following the treatment processes suitable for the patient, which is one of the most important principles of medicine. At the same time, the use of technology is seen in studies in the personalized medicine and pharmaceutical industry. In this study, considering the impressive potential of the Digital Twin technology in the field of  health, qualified studies that will guide future studies are emphasized.

The health digital twin to tackle cardiovascular disease—a review of an emerging interdisciplinary field

Potential benefits of precision medicine in cardiovascular disease (CVD) include more accurate phenotyping of individual patients with the same condition or presentation, using multiple clinical, imaging, molecular and other variables to guide diagnosis and treatment. An approach to realising this potential is the digital twin concept, whereby a virtual representation of a patient is constructed and receives real-time updates of a range of data variables in order to predict disease and optimise treatment selection for the real-life patient. We explored the term digital twin, its defining concepts, the challenges as an emerging field, and potentially important applications in CVD. A mapping review was undertaken using a systematic search of peer-reviewed literature. Industry based participants and patent applications were identified through web-based sources. Searches of Compendex, EMBASE, Medline, ProQuest and Scopus databases yielded 88 papers related to cardiovascular conditions (28%, n =25), non-cardiovascular conditions (41%, n =36), and general aspects of the health digital twin (31%, n =27). Fifteen companies with a commercial interest in health digital twin or simulation modelling had products focused on CVD. The patent search identified 18 applications from 11 applicants, of which 73% were companies and 27% were universities. Three applicants had cardiac-related inventions. For CVD, digital twin research within industry and academia is recent, interdisciplinary, and established globally. Overall, the applications were numerical simulation models, although precursor models exist for the real-time cyber-physical system characteristic of a true digital twin. Implementation challenges include ethical constraints and clinical barriers to the adoption of decision tools derived from artificial intelligence systems.

Digital Twins: A Survey on Enabling Technologies, Challenges, Trends and Future Prospects

Digital Twin (DT) is an emerging technology surrounded by many promises, and potentials to reshape the future of industries and society overall. A DT is a system-of-systems which goes far beyond the traditional computer-based simulations and analysis. It is a replication of all the elements, processes, dynamics, and firmware of a physical system into a digital counterpart. The two systems (physical and digital) exist side by side, sharing all the inputs and operations using real-time data communications and information transfer. With the incorporation of Internet of Things (IoT), Artificial Intelligence (AI), 3D models, next generation mobile communications (5G/6G), Augmented Reality (AR), Virtual Reality (VR), distributed computing, Transfer Learning (TL), and electronic sensors, the digital/virtual counterpart of the real-world system is able to provide seamless monitoring, analysis, evaluation and predictions. The DT offers a platform for the testing and analysing of complex systems, which would be impossible in traditional simulations and modular evaluations. However, the development of this technology faces many challenges including the complexities in effective communication and data accumulation, data unavailability to train Machine Learning (ML) models, lack of processing power to support high fidelity twins, the high need for interdisciplinary collaboration, and the absence of standardized development methodologies and validation measures. Being in the early stages of development, DTs lack sufficient documentation. In this context, this survey paper aims to cover the important aspects in realization of the technology. The key enabling technologies, challenges and prospects of DTs are highlighted. The paper provides a deep insight into the technology, lists design goals and objectives, highlights design challenges and limitations across industries, discusses research and commercial developments, provides its applications and use cases, offers case studies in industry, infrastructure and healthcare, lists main service providers and stakeholders, and covers developments to date, as well as viable research dimensions for future developments in DTs.

Digital Twins: State of the art theory and practice, challenges, and open research questions

Digital Twin was introduced over a decade ago, as an innovative all-encompassing tool, with perceived benefits including real-time monitoring, simulation, optimisation and accurate forecasting. However, the theoretical framework and practical implementations of digital twin (DT) are yet to fully achieve this vision at scale. Although an increasing number of successful implementations exist in research and industrial works, sufficient implementation details are not publicly available, making it difficult to fully assess their components and effectiveness, to draw comparisons, identify successful solutions, share lessons, and thus to jointly advance and benefit from the DT methodology. This work first presents a review of relevant DT research and industrial works, focusing on the key DT features, current approaches in different domains, and successful DT implementations, to infer the key DT components and properties, and to identify current limitations and reasons behind the delay in the widespread implementation and adoption of digital twin. This work identifies that the major reasons for this delay are: the fact the DT is still a fast evolving concept; the lack of a universal DT reference framework, e.g. DT standards are scarce and still evolving; problem- and domain-dependence; security concerns over shared data; lack of DT performance metrics; and reliance of digital twin on other fast-evolving technologies. Advancements in machine learning, Internet of Things (IoT) and big data have led to significant improvements in DT features such as real-time monitoring and accurate forecasting. Despite this progress and individual company-based efforts, certain research and implementation gaps exist in the field, which have so far prevented the widespread adoption of the DT concept and technology; these gaps are also discussed in this work. Based on reviews of past work and the identified gaps, this work then defines a conceptualisation of DT which includes its components and properties; these also validate the uniqueness of DT as a concept, when compared to similar concepts such as simulation, autonomous systems and optimisation. Real-life case studies are used to showcase the application of the conceptualisation. This work discusses the state-of-the-art in DT, addresses relevant and timely DT questions, and identifies novel research questions, thus contributing to a better understanding of the DT paradigm and advancing the theory and practice of DT and its allied technologies.

Digital twins: An analysis framework and open issues

The concept of twinning an operational physical system with a functional replica is not new, having been practiced in the space sector for over 50 years. Advances in digitalisation have created opportunities to extract data, obtain insights and achieve greater situational awareness of a physical system’s performance. Increasing interest in the concept has led to a proliferation of digital twin definitions, which are used to frame discussions about specific digital twins. Consequentially comparison of the capabilities of specific digital twins is difficult as they are analysed using different definitions. This paper proposes an analysis framework that enables the characteristics of all digital twins to be matched to this framework. Using this framework, a digital twin may be characterised, or two or more digital twins may be compared. By establishing a framework that contains common functional characteristics, we aim to reduce the confusion caused by the plethora of digital twin definitions and their interpretation by suppliers. By focusing only on functionality and not addressing non-functional requirements the analysis allows comparison of different physical and logical instantiations of digital twins.

Digital Twins in Built Environments: An Investigation of the Characteristics, Applications, and Challenges

The concept of digital twins is proposed as a new technology-led advancement to support the processes of the design, construction, and operation of built assets. Commonalities between the emerging definitions of digital twins describe them as digital or cyber environments that are bidirectionally-linked to their physical or real-life replica to enable simulation and data-centric decision making. Studies have started to investigate their role in the digitalization of asset delivery, including the management of built assets at different levels within the building and infrastructure sectors. However, questions persist regarding their actual applications and implementation challenges, including their integration with other digital technologies (i.e., building information modeling, virtual and augmented reality, Internet of Things, artificial intelligence, and cloud computing). Within the built environment context, this study seeks to analyze the definitions and characteristics of a digital twin, its interactions with other digital technologies used in built asset delivery and operation, and its applications and challenges. To achieve this aim, the research utilizes a thorough literature review and semi-structured interviews with ten industry experts. The literature review explores the merits and the relevance of digital twins relative to existing digital technologies and highlights potential applications and challenges for their implementation. The data from the semi-structured interviews are classified into five themes: definitions and enablers of digital twins, applications and benefits, implementation challenges, existing practical applications, and future development. The findings provide a point of departure for future research aimed at clarifying the relationship between digital twins and other digital technologies and their key implementation challenges.

Design, Modeling and Implementation of Digital Twins

A Digital Twin (DT) is a set of computer-generated models that map a physical object into a virtual space. Both physical and virtual elements exchange information to monitor, simulate, predict, diagnose and control the state and behavior of the physical object within the virtual space. DTs supply a system with information and operating status, providing capabilities to create new business models. In this paper, we focus on the construction of DTs. More specifically, we focus on determining (methodologically) how to design, create and connect physical objects with their virtual counterpart. We explore the problem into several phases: from functional requirement selection and architecture planning to integration and verification of the final (digital) models. We address as well how physical components exchange real-time information with DTs, as well as experimental platforms to build DTs (including protocols and standards). We conclude with a discussion and open challenges.

Architecting Digital Twins

In 2002, Grieves defined the concept of the digital twin as a virtual instance of physical assets capable of continuously mirroring them. Ever since then, driven by remarkable industrial attention, digital twins flourished and ripened in several sectors. The notable industrial adoption has been sided by a growing interest from the software engineering community in general and the software architecture community in particular as demonstrated by the growing number of published peer-reviewed publications and proposed software architectural solutions for digital twins. In this paper, we report on the planning, execution, and results of a systematic mapping study on architecting digital twins. The study captures crucial aspects of software architectures for digital twins as types of architectural solutions, quality attributes, and architectural patterns. It supports practitioners in creating digital twins tailored to their specific needs and researchers in identifying trends and open challenges. Starting from an initial set of potentially relevant 1630 peer-reviewed publications, we selected 140 primary studies. We analysed the set of primary studies using thorough data extraction, analysis, and synthesis process. To compensate for single method limitations and reduce possible threats to conclusion validity, we discussed the results of our study with experts in the software architecture community. Based on our results, the field of software architecture for digital twins is lively and an increasing number of architectural solutions are being proposed. Although there is a lack of widely accepted reference architectural solutions for digital twins, most of them are built using a combination of the layered and service-oriented patterns and address maintainability, performance efficiency, and compatibility quality attributes.

Web of Digital Twins

In recent years, digital twins have been pervading different application domains—from manufacturing to healthcare—as an approach for virtualising different kinds of physical entities (things, products, machines). The dominant view developed in the literature so far is about the virtualisation of individual physical assets in a closed-system perspective. In this article, we introduce and explore a broader perspective that we call Web of Digital Twins (WoDT), in which the digital twin paradigm is exploited for the pervasive softwarisation of possibly large-scale interrelated physical realities. A WoDT can be conceived as an open, distributed and dynamic ecosystem of connected digital twins, functioning as an interoperable service-oriented layer for applications running on top, especially smart applications and multiagent systems. The article introduces an  model and architecture aimed to capture key aspects of the idea not bound to any specific application domains or implementing technologies and discusses their adoption in engineering real-world systems. To this purpose, two concrete case studies are considered, in the context of healthcare and smart mobility. Finally, the article includes a discussion of a selected set of research directions.

Intelligent digital twins and the development and management of complex systems

The interest in defining and implementing Digital Twins (DT) is at the forefront of today's product organizations. The evolution of increasingly complex systems requires that their information be organized and managed via digital twins.  In addition, the development of Artificial Intelligence (AI) will result in an increasing degree of system complexity. These complex systems will exhibit true emergent behavior as AIs modify system aspects as the result of goal seeking and learning. DTs will need to increase in capability, becoming intelligent in their approach. This article presents a discussion on how these Intelligent Digital Twins (IDTs) will evolve and assist in developing and managing complex systems.

The adoption of urban digital twins

The urban management industry has recently shown interest in implementing digital twins in cities to improve urban planning, optimize asset management and create secure, sustainable cities. Built on the knowledge gained with the development of smart cities and the implementation of digital twins in other industries, urban digital twins have experienced a significant expansion in just a few years. However, this rapid growth has led to a fragmented situation where the definition of the concept of urban digital twin is not clear and implementations share few similarities. For this reason, the main objective of this paper was to contribute to the conceptualization of the digital twin in urban management. To do so, existing initiatives were mapped in terms of applications, inputs, processing and outputs. Requirements were elicited and the basic structure of a city digital twin was defined. Benefits, open issues and key challenges were also identified. This paper will be useful for stakeholders within the urban management area as it establishes the basis for the future design, development and widespread adoption of urban digital twins.

Digital Twins: A Maturity Model for Their Classification and Evaluation

Digital Twins represent a powerful tool for transforming production and logistics towards Industry 4.0. They mirror physical assets in the digital world, enriching them with additional capabilities and features such as decision-making or lifecycle management. Due to the diverse possibilities associated with the Digital Twin, their design and implementation are also wide-ranging. This paper aims to contribute to the formalization and standardization of the description of Digital Twins. It presents a method for evaluating them through their lifecycle, from design to operation. The paper is based on an overview of their potential functionalities and properties with ranked stages of development. This method allows for an application-specific evaluation of Digital Twins and describes how they can be improved to suit the application better. The maturity model development follows the procedure for developing maturity models for IT management. Relevant capabilities and features were identified with a systematic literature review following the PRISMA guidelines. The results of this review were ranked and categorized and constitute the core of the maturity model, which was validated on five use-cases from different domains in production and logistics. The maturity model assesses Digital Twins in seven categories (context, data, computing capabilities, model, integration, control, human-machine interface) with 31 ranked characteristics. It evaluates existing solutions for potential improvements for a given application or the transfer to a new use-case. The resulting method and a supplementary web service present a generalized model for the evaluation of Digital Twins. Based on a description of a potential application, this is the first step towards a systematic evaluation, improving the structured development of such applications.

Archetypes of Digital Twins

Currently, Digital Twins receive considerable attention from practitioners and in research. A Digital Twin describes a concept that connects physical and virtual objects through a data linkage. However, Digital Twins are highly dependent on their individual use case, which leads to a plethora of Digital Twin configurations. Based on a thorough literature analysis and two interview series with experts from various electrical and mechanical engineering companies, this paper proposes a set of archetypes of Digital Twins for individual use cases. It delimits the Digital Twins from related concepts, e.g., Digital Threads. The paper delivers profound insights into the domain of Digital Twins and, thus, helps the reader to identify the different archetypical patterns.

Digital twins in industry 4.0

The digital twin is now within reach while manufacturing and manufacturing process become increasingly digital and the Internet of Things (IoT) is becoming more and more dominant. Digital twins are intended to model complex structures and processes that communicate with their environments in various ways, for which it is challenging to predict effects over the entire lifecycle of the product. A digital twin is a virtual model that during its life cycle simulates a physical entity or operation, providing a near real-time connection between both the physical and virtual world. A digital twin allows the industry to detect physical issues sooner, predict outcomes more accurately, and build better products. The IoT drives digital twin as a trend in a wide range of industries, by offering them the potential to take the advantages, of mass customization along with mass personalization, maintaining, at the same time, mass production efficiency. Developing a digital twin needs different components, including sensors, communications networks, and a digital platform. This chapter aims to map major architectures and applications of digital twins for Industry 4.0, along the lines of manufacturing systems, manufacturing processes and robots, automation and virtual reality in manufacturing.

Digital Twins for Materials

Digital twins are emerging as powerful tools for supporting innovation as well as optimizing the in-service performance of a broad range of complex physical machines, devices, and components. A digital twin is generally designed to provide accurate in-silico representation of the form (i.e., appearance) and the functional response of a specified (unique) physical twin. This paper offers a new perspective on how the emerging concept of digital twins could be applied to accelerate materials innovation efforts. Specifically, it is argued that the material itself can be considered as a highly complex multiscale physical system whose form (i.e., details of the material structure over a hierarchy of material length) and function (i.e., response to external stimuli typically characterized through suitably defined material properties) can be captured suitably in a digital twin. Accordingly, the digital twin can represent the evolution of structure, process, and performance of the material over time, with regard to both process history and in-service environment. This paper establishes the foundational concepts and frameworks needed to formulate and continuously update both the form and function of the digital twin of a selected material physical twin. The form of the proposed material digital twin can be captured effectively using the broadly applicable framework of n-point spatial correlations, while its function at the different length scales can be captured using homogenization and localization process-structure-property surrogate models calibrated to collections of available experimental and physics-based simulation data.

Predictive maintenance using digital twins: A systematic literature review

Context
Predictive maintenance is a technique for creating a more sustainable, safe, and profitable industry. One of the key challenges for creating predictive maintenance systems is the lack of failure data, as the machine is frequently repaired before failure. Digital Twins provide a real-time representation of the physical machine and generate data, such as asset degradation, which the predictive maintenance algorithm can use. Since 2018, scientific literature on the utilization of Digital Twins for predictive maintenance has accelerated, indicating the need for a thorough review.
Objective
This research aims to gather and synthesize the studies that focus on predictive maintenance using Digital Twins to pave the way for further research.
Method
A systematic literature review (SLR) using an active learning tool is conducted on published primary studies on predictive maintenance using Digital Twins, in which 42 primary studies have been analyzed.
Results
This SLR identifies several aspects of predictive maintenance using Digital Twins, including the objectives, application domains, Digital Twin platforms, Digital Twin representation types, approaches, ion levels, design patterns, communication protocols, twinning parameters, and challenges and solution directions. These results contribute to a Software Engineering approach for developing predictive maintenance using Digital Twins in academics and the industry.
Conclusion
This study is the first SLR in predictive maintenance using Digital Twins. We answer key questions for designing a successful predictive maintenance model leveraging Digital Twins. We found that to this day, computational burden, data variety, and complexity of models, assets, or components are the key challenges in designing these models.

BlockNet: Beyond reliable spatial Digital Twins to Parallel Metaverse

The Metaverse is the expansion of Digital Twins in the fields of people and society. Although the Metaverse existed 10 years before the emergence of Digital Twins, it is still in the concept stage, and Digital Twins has been widely used in industries and other fields. We extracted the immutable characteristics of Blockchain and proposed a secure multidimensional data storage solution called BlockNet that can ensure the security of the digital mapping process of the Internet of Things, thereby improving the data reliability of Digital Twins. Additionally, to address some of the challenges faced by multiscale spatial data processing, we proposed a nonmutagenic multidimensional Hash Geocoding method, allowing unique indexing of multidimensional information and avoiding information loss due to data dimensionality reduction while improving the efficiency of information retrieval and facilitating the implementation of the Metaverse through spatial Digital Twins based on these two works.

Digital twins that learn and correct themselves

Digital twins can be defined as digital representations of physical entities that employ real-time data to enable understanding of the operating conditions of these entities. Here we present a particular type of digital twin that involves a combination of computer vision, scientific machine learning, and augmented reality. This novel digital twin is able, therefore, to see, to interpret what it sees—and, if necessary, to correct the model it is equipped with—and presents the resulting information in the form of augmented reality. The computer vision capabilities allow the twin to receive data continuously. As any other digital twin, it is equipped with one or more models so as to assimilate data. However, if persistent deviations from the predicted values are found, the proposed methodology is able to correct on the fly the existing models, so as to accommodate them to the measured reality. Finally, the suggested methodology is completed with augmented reality capabilities so as to render a completely new type of digital twin. These concepts are tested against a proof-of-concept model consisting on a nonlinear, hyperelastic beam subjected to moving loads whose exact position is to be determined.

Digital twins and their use in future power systems

The electric power sector is one of the later sectors in adopting digital twins and models in the loop for its operations. This article firstly reviews the history, the fundamental properties, and the variants of such digital twins and how they relate to the power system. Secondly, first applications of the digital twin concept in the power and energy business are explained. It is shown that the trans-disciplinarity, the different time scales, and the heterogeneity of the required models are the main challenges in this process and that co-simulation and co-modeling can help. This article will help power system professionals to enter the field of digital twins and to learn how they can be used in their business.

Digital Twins From a Networking Perspective

Digital twin (DT) has attracted a lot of attention from both industry and academia since it was proposed over a decade ago. A DT can be viewed as a virtual implementation of a real physical system (PS) and used as a representation of the PS for various applications. Despite the great potential of DTs in various fields, implementing DTs to obtain the desired functionality is not always straightforward. Specifically, accurate real-time synchronization between the features at a PS and its DT is essential for the DT to represent the PS. In this case, appropriate networking support is a key component to enable future DT development and applications. Currently, the research on DTs from a networking standpoint is still at an early stage, and only limited work has been done on DT implementation in practical systems. To fill this gap, this article investigates networking-related issues for DTs. Based on the existing literature, a feature-based method is provided for describing the desired properties and quality of DTs from the networking perspective. A stage-based implementation framework is presented for creating large-scale DTs for complex PSs by considering various networking constraints. Networking-related challenging issues and open research topics are discussed at the end.

Metaverses and DeMetaverses: From Digital Twins in CPS to Parallel Intelligence in CPSS

A total of 12 years have been passed since this Department was created in 2010 as the first academic forum dedicated to cyber-physical-social systems (CPSS), with the first CPSS research article on the field: “The Emergence of Intelligent Enterprises: From CPS to CPSS.” What has happened and changed during the past decade? A brief reflection and review are presented here with a focus on digital twins in CPS versus parallel intelligence in CPSS, and their relationship to blockchain intelligence, smart contracts, metaverses, DAO, Web3, and decentralized science. The concept of DeMetaverses is thus introduced and interpreted as a DAO-based decentralized autonomous metaverse. The characteristics, mechanism, and impact of DeMetaverses are discussed with a vision for achieving an integrated human, artificial, natural, and organizational intelligence that would transform our world into “6S” societies.

Application of Digital Twins in multiple fields

With the development of science and technology, the high-tech industry is developing rapidly, and various new-age technologies continue to appear, and Digital Twins (DT) is one of them. As a brand-new interactive technology, DT technology can handle the interaction between the real world and the virtual world well. It has become a hot spot in the academic circles of all countries in the world. DT have developed rapidly in recent years result from centrality, integrity and dynamics. It is integrated with other technologies and has been applied in many fields, such as smart factory in industrial production, digital model of life in medical field, construction of smart city, security guarantee in aerospace field, immersive shopping in commercial field and so on. The introduction of DT is mostly a summary of concepts, and few practical applications of Digital Twins are introduced. The purpose of this paper is to enable people to understand the application status of DT technology. At the same time, the introduction of core technologies related to DT is interspersed in the application introduction. Finally, combined with the current development status of DT, predict the future development trend of DT and make a summary.

Building digital twins of the human immune system: toward a roadmap

Digital twins, customized simulation models pioneered in industry, are beginning to be deployed in medicine and healthcare, with some major successes, for instance in cardiovascular diagnostics and in insulin pump control. Personalized computational models are also assisting in applications ranging from drug development to treatment optimization. More advanced medical digital twins will be essential to making precision medicine a reality. Because the immune system plays an important role in such a wide range of diseases and health conditions, from fighting pathogens to autoimmune disorders, digital twins of the immune system will have an especially high impact. However, their development presents major challenges, stemming from the inherent complexity of the immune system and the difficulty of measuring many aspects of a patient’s immune state in vivo. This perspective outlines a roadmap for meeting these challenges and building a prototype of an immune digital twin. It is structured as a four-stage process that proceeds from a specification of a concrete use case to model constructions, personalization, and continued improvement.

Potential and limitations of digital twins to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals

Could computer simulation models drive our ambitions to sustainability in urban and non-urban environments? Digital twins, defined here as real-time, virtual replicas of physical and biological entities, may do just that. However, despite their touted potential, digital twins have not been examined critically in urban sustainability paradigms—not least in the Sustainable Development Goals framework. Accordingly, in this Perspective, we examine their benefits in promoting the Sustainable Development Goals. Then, we discuss critical limitations when modelling socio-technical and socio-ecological systems and go on to discuss measures to treat these limitations and design inclusive, reliable and responsible computer simulations for achieving sustainable development.

Digital Twins in greenhouse horticulture: A review

Digital Twins can be considered as a new phase in smart and data-driven greenhouse horticulture. A Digital Twin is a digital equivalent to a real-life object of which it mirrors its behaviour and states over its lifetime in a virtual space. Research indicates that they can substantially enhance productivity and sustainability, and are able to deal with the increasing scarcity of green labour in greenhouse horticulture. This paper presents the results of a systematic literature review on Digital Twin applications in greenhouse horticulture. The review identifies 8 articles that explicitly address Digital Twins in greenhouse horticulture and 115 studies that implicitly apply the Digital Twin concept in smart IoT-based systems. Findings indicate that the concept of the Digital Twin is in a seminal phase in greenhouse horticulture, but there are existing applications that are not yet framed as Digital Twins. In the reviewed papers, there is a dominant focus on the cultivation process at the greenhouse level, among others for climate control, energy management and lighting. About 9% of the articles are virtualizing plants themselves, which indicates that the granularity level addressed is still rather limited. Only 7 % of the articles look beyond plants or single greenhouses. None of the reviewed articles consider the company level. Furthermore, most applications address monitoring and control of the state and behaviour of real-life objects. More advanced applications, including predictive and prescriptive capabilities across the complete lifecycle, are still in an early stage of development, although predictive Digital Twins are gaining prominence.

Building the metaverse using digital twins at all scales,states, and relations

Developments in new-generation information technology have enabled Digital Twins to reshape the physical world into a virtual digital space and provide technical support for constructing the Metaverse. Metaverse objects can be at the micro-, meso-, or macroscale. The Metaverse is a complex collection of solid, liquid, gaseous, plasma, and other uncertain states. Additionally, the Metaverse integrates tangibles with social relations, such as interpersonal (friends, partners, and family) and social relations (ethics, morality, and law). This review introduces some principles and laws, such as broken windows theory, small-world phenomenon, survivor bias, and herd behavior, for constructing a Digital Twins model for social relations. Therefore, from multiple perspectives, this article reviews mappings of tangible and intangible real-world objects to the Metaverse using the Digital Twins model.

Digital Twins for Healthcare 4.0—Recent Advances, Architecture, and Open Challenges

Recent trends have shown a widespread increase in the landscape of digital healthcare (i.e., Healthcare 4.0) services, such as personalized healthcare, intelligent rehabilitation, telemedicine, and smart diet management, among others. These healthcare services are based on a variety of diverse requirements. Fulfilling these requirements require proactive intelligent analytics and self-sustainability of networks. Self-sustainability enables the operation of a network with minimum possible interaction from the end-users/network operators, whereas proactive intelligent analytics enables efficient management of resources in response to users’ requests. To enable healthcare 4.0 with proactive online analytics and self-sustainability, one can leverage digital twins. In this article, we present an overview and recent advances of digital twins for healthcare 4.0. An architecture of digital twins for healthcare is also proposed. Furthermore, we present several use cases of digital twins. Finally, we present open research challenges with possible solutions.

Applying Digital Twins in Metaverse: User Interface, Security and Privacy Challenges

Digital Twins (DTs) are a conventional and well known concept, proposed in 70s, that are popular in a broad spectrum of sciences, industry innovations, and consortium alliances. However, in the last few years, the growth of digital assets and online communications has attracted attention to DTs as highly accurate twins of physical objects. Metaverse, as a digital world, is a concept proposed in 1992 and has also become a popular paradigm and hot topic in public where DTs can play critical roles. This study first presents definitions, applications, and general challenges of DT and Metaverse. It then offers a three-layer architecture linking the physical world to the Metaverse through a user interface. Further, it investigates the security and privacy challenges of using DTs in Metaverse. Finally, a conclusion, including possible solutions for mentioned challenges and future works, will be provided.

Digital twins for well-being: an overview

Digital twin (DT) has gained success in various industries, and it is now getting attention in the healthcare industry in the form of well-being digital twin (WDT). In this paper, we present an overview of WDT to understand its potential scope, architecture and impact. We then discuss the definition  and the benefits of WDT. After that, we present the evolution of DT frameworks. Subsequently we discuss the challenges, the different types, the drawbacks, and potential application areas of WDT. Finally we present the requirements for a WDT framework extracted from the literature.

The Role of Digital Twins in Connected and Automated Vehicles

Digital twins found their genesis in the halls of NASA and the methods of product lifecycle management. Rapidly evolving trends around the proliferation of sensors, the Internet of Things, Industry 4.0, and cyber-physical systems have spurred the growth of digital twins. This paper reviews digital twins and their use in connected and automated vehicles (CAVs). Strictly speaking, digital twins must have communication between a physical system and its model, as opposed to similar methodologies that achieve indirect communication through iteration, or that substitute different parts of a system simulation with bits of hardware or software for testing. In practice, new methodologies for testing CAVs are sufficiently complex and difficult to apply simple labels. This is seen in our review of vehicular digital twins. Several gaps and challenges are apparent for the continued advancement of digital twin applications. We note some developing areas as traffic management centers, digital maps, onboard diagnostics, and logistics. Digital twins foster model reuse and encourage the use of multiple models at different scales of resolution. The role of digital twins will continue to grow as models become more tightly integrated to the physical systems they represent. This will drive such models towards uniqueness (matching a particular vehicle or road), adaptability (evolving with changing conditions and subject to wear and tear), and interpretability (conveying useful information to a human user). A maturing connected infrastructure and the development of smart cities will cause the number of new digital twin services to explode in a myriad of unforeseen ways.

Implementation of digital twins in the process industry: A systematic literature review of enablers and barriers

Since the introduction of the concept of “digital twins” (DTs) in 2002, the number of practical applications in different industrial sectors has grown rapidly. Despite the hype surrounding this technology, companies face significant challenges upon deciding to implement DTs in their organizations due to the novelty of the concept. Furthermore, little research on DT has been conducted for the process industry, which may be explained by the high complexity of accurately representing and modeling the physics behind production processes. To consolidate the fragmented literature on the enabling factors and challenges in DT implementation in the process industry, this study organizes the existing studies on DTs with a focus on barriers and enablers. On this basis, this study contributes to the existing body of knowledge on DTs by organizing the DT literature and by proposing conceptual models describing enablers of and barriers to DT implementation, as well as their mutual relationships.

Artificial intelligence in the digital twins: State of the art, challenges, and future research topics

Advanced computer technologies such as big data, Artificial Intelligence (AI), cloud computing, digital twins, and edge computing have been applied in various fields as digitalization has progressed. To study the status of the application of digital twins in the combination with AI, this paper classifies the applications and prospects of AI in digital twins by studying the research results of the current published literature. We discuss the application status of digital twins in the four areas of aerospace, intelligent manufacturing in production workshops, unmanned vehicles, and smart city transportation, and we review the current challenges and  topics that need to be looked forward to in the future. It was found that the integration of digital twins and AI has significant effects in aerospace flight detection simulation, failure warning, aircraft assembly, and even unmanned flight. In the virtual simulation test of automobile autonomous driving, it can save 80% of the time and cost, and the same road conditions reduce the parameter scale of the actual vehicle dynamics model and greatly improve the test accuracy. In the intelligent manufacturing of production workshops, the establishment of a virtual workplace environment can provide timely fault warning, extend the service life of the equipment, and ensure the overall workshop operational safety. In smart city traffic, the real road environment is simulated, and traffic accidents are restored, so that the traffic situation is clear and efficient, and urban traffic management can be carried out quickly and accurately. Finally, we looked forward to the future of digital twins and AI, hoping to provide a reference for future research in related fields.

Digital Twins in Agriculture: A State-of-the-art review

The Digital Twin enables the distinctions between state sensing, entity understanding and physical automation to be eliminated, through high-fidelity modelling and bi-directional data streams. The concept of real-time virtual representation places the Digital Twin in a unique position to enable digitization in agriculture. The union of data, modelling and what-if simulation can provide an approach to overcome current limitations in decision-making support and automation, across a diverse range of agricultural enterprises. This paper conducts a Systematic Literature Review of Digital Twins in agriculture, identifying current trends and open questions with the goal of increasing awareness and understanding of the Digital Twin and its possibilities.

Digital Twins in agriculture: challenges and opportunities for environmental sustainability
Food security, land degradation, climate change, and a growing population are interconnected challenges and key issues for sustainable agriculture. In this context, the Digital Twin (DT) is uniquely positioned to overcome these challenges and support the goals of sustainability. Through the use of state-of-the-art technologies, increased information availability can empower stakeholders to pursue sustainable objectives and production methods. However, if these benefits are to be fully leveraged, the potential negative technical and social–ecological effects of the technology must be assessed and mitigated. Therefore, an exploratory review is conducted, outlining the progress of current examples toward the aims of sustainable agriculture. Additionally, the social–ecological and technological dangers of the concept are investigated, culminating in a high-level roadmap that highlights necessary milestones required to support the open and sustainable development of DTs in agriculture.

Challenges of urban digital twins: A systematic review and a Delphi expert survey

Many challenges to operate digital twins remain, hindering their design and implementation, and are rarely discussed. Furthermore, issues of social and legal nature are often overlooked. We identify the challenges of operating digital twins in the urban context through a bifurcated and multi-dimensional approach: a systematic literature review and an expert survey. The review organises the identified challenges across technical and non-technical dimensions. As the topic is novel, the corpus is rather small and lacking the contextualisation of challenges. Thus, we complement it with a survey based on the Delphi method, involving a diverse panel of domain experts covering academia, industry and government organisations. Combining the results, we identify 14 technical and 9 non-technical challenges and map them to phases of the digital twin’s life cycle. The most severe challenges appear to be related to interoperability (e.g. disparate semantic standards) and practical value (e.g. lack of business models).

Digital Twins: Past, Present, and Future

The Digital Twin (DT) is a concept introduced at the beginning of the twenty-first century but did not gain traction until the middle of the last decade. It is a concept that was first adopted for tangible industrial products and has since expanded to all manner of products and services. This includes not only application to inanimate entities but also to the biological conditions of people. Digital Twins are rapidly moving into the intangible realm of processes and  ideas. The Digital Twin consists of different types to be a framework for the entire lifecycle of the entities. While the Digital Twin today is a concept that is created by its users, the prediction is that its evolution is to be an intelligent platform. This will allow work to move from the physical world into the virtual world with major impacts on efficiency and effectiveness.

Digital Twins in Industry 5.0

This work aims to explore the impact of Digital Twins Technology on industrial manufacturing in the context of Industry 5.0. A computer is used to search the Web of Science database to summarize the Digital Twins in Industry 5.0. First, the background and system architecture of Industry 5.0 are introduced. Then, the potential applications and key modeling technologies in Industry 5.0 are discussed. It is found that equipment is the infrastructure of industrial scenarios, and the embedded intelligent upgrade for equipment is a Digital Twins primary condition. At the same time, Digital Twins can provide automated real-time process analysis between connected machines and data sources, speeding up error detection and correction. In addition, Digital Twins can bring obvious efficiency improvements and cost reductions to industrial manufacturing. Digital Twins reflects its potential application value and subsequent potential value in Industry 5.0 through the prospect. It is hoped that this relatively systematic overview can provide technical reference for the intelligent development of industrial manufacturing and the improvement of the efficiency of the entire business process in the Industrial X.0 era.

Digital twins in infrastructure: definitions, current practices, challenges and strategies

When combined with information and communication technologies and powerful data analytic algorithms such as artificial intelligence, digital twins enable organisations to conserve physical resources. This applies both during the design phase and when performing diagnostic and predictive analyses during operations. These abilities bring significant opportunities to the infrastructure industry to develop new ways of designing, constructing, operating and monitoring infrastructure at a time when much of the world’s civil infrastructure is ageing and showing signs of deterioration. This study aims to find out how digital twins can help the infrastructure industry to deliver and operate sustainable and smart infrastructure assets. This paper presents an overview of digital twin definitions, current practices, benefits and challenges through a series of semi-structured expert interviews with executives from the UK infrastructure industry. Additionally, it suggests a series of strategies to aid digital transformation and digital twin adoption in the industry. Results from the interviews illustrated that the executives involved in digital transformation in the infrastructure industry are very well aware of the definitions, benefits and challenges of digital twins. In general, they understand the value of digital transformation and specifically digital twins. They know the reasons behind the need for transforming the industry and adopting data-driven concepts such as digital twins. Moreover, the executives interviewed as part of this study mentioned common challenges across different infrastructure domains. The strategies presented are focused on addressing these three main challenges identified and agreed upon by the participants – culture, technology adoption and lack of a skilled workforce. The three main strategies, addressing digital transformation (1), cultural transformation (2) and bridging the skills gap (3), are explained later in this paper. The article concludes by underlining the importance of creating equal opportunities for the current workforce to improve their digital fluency and skillset by providing information about the benefits of digital twins throughout the sector and organisations to improve adoption and the realisation of benefits.

Towards adaptive digital twins architecture

The use of Digital Twins (DTs) for continuously optimising manufacturing systems under a constant stream of changes, also known as ”online optimisation”, is taken for granted by many authors but rarely demonstrated possible given the challenges in keeping a DT synchronised with its real system whilst using it to run look-ahead simulations. This research addresses this gap by demonstrating that online optimisation is achievable alongside real-time look-ahead simulation in DTs, even under constant changes in the system being modelled. The main enabling factor is a proposed architecture which can underpin a Digital Twin with Adaptive capabilities, or Adaptive Digital Twin (ADT). The capabilities include Real-time Simulation, Online Optimisation, and Adaptivity (RSO2A). The proposed ADT architecture is suitable for constantly changing production environments with unpredictable demands, for example, those envisioned to deliver the concept of mass personalisation, allowing customers to co-create and co-design products based on personal preferences. To demonstrate and validate the support of the ADT architecture for RSO2A, an Adaptive Manufacturing System (AMS) for mass personalisation is developed in silico. The AMS is underpinned by the proposed ADT architecture and simulated its operation and adaptation using realistic shoe personalisation scenarios. The simulation output demonstrates how the proposed architecture and the ADT built with it enable the AMS to maintain continuous production of personalised shoes and continuously re-configure its layout to adapt to new changes in the production environment.

What Is the Role of AI for Digital Twins?

The concept of a digital twin is intriguing as it presents an innovative approach to solving numerous real-world challenges. Initially emerging from the domains of manufacturing and engineering, digital twin research has transcended its origins and now finds applications across a wide range of disciplines. This multidisciplinary expansion has impressively demonstrated the potential of digital twin research. While the simulation aspect of a digital twin is often emphasized, the role of artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) is severely understudied. For this reason, in this paper, we highlight the pivotal role of AI and ML for digital twin research. By recognizing that a digital twin is a component of a broader Digital Twin System (DTS), we can fully grasp the diverse applications of AI and ML. In this paper, we explore six AI techniques—(1) optimization (model creation), (2) optimization (model updating), (3) generative modeling, (4) data analytics, (5) predictive analytics and (6) decision making—and their potential to advance applications in health, climate science, and sustainability.

A design framework for a system of digital twins and services

Digital twins represent physical systems in virtual space to enable knowledge intensive tasks. For complex physical systems, effective digital integration can often be achieved by means of a system of aggregated digital twins coupled with a services network. Designing such a system of digital twins and services involves a daunting array of options and considerations. This paper presents a design framework that facilitates systematic, effective decisions when designing a system of digital twins to integrate the data from a complex physical system. The design framework is arranged in six steps: 1) needs and constraints analysis, 2) physical system decomposition, 3) services allocation, 4) performance and quality considerations, 5) implementation considerations and 6) verification and validation. The design framework works with a general reference architecture that combines a digital twin aggregation hierarchy with a service-oriented architecture. This reference architecture allows for the separation of concerns, computational load distribution, incremental development and modular software design. The paper considers the merits of the design framework using two illustrative case studies, i.e. a heliostat field and a smart city. The case studies indicate that the design framework can be applied to a wide range of complex systems and can improve the effectiveness of the design process.

An investigation for integration of deep learning and digital twins towards Construction 4.0

Purpose
The purpose of this paper is to investigate the potential integration of deep learning (DL) and digital twins (DT), referred to as (DDT), to facilitate Construction 4.0 through an exploratory analysis.
Design/methodology/approach
A mixed approach involving qualitative and quantitative analysis was applied to collect data from global industry experts via interviews, focus groups and a questionnaire survey, with an emphasis on the practicality and interoperability of DDT with decision-support capabilities for process optimization.
Findings
Based on the analysis of results, a conceptual model of the framework has been developed. The research findings validate that DL integrated DT model facilitating Construction 4.0 will incorporate cognitive abilities to detect complex and unpredictable actions and reasoning about dynamic process optimization strategies to support decision-making.
Practical implications
The DL integrated DT model will establish an interoperable functionality and develop typologies of models described for autonomous real-time interpretation and decision-making support of complex building systems development based on cognitive capabilities of DT.
Originality/value
The research explores how the technologies work collaboratively to integrate data from different environments in real-time through the interplay of the optimization and simulation during planning and construction. The framework model is a step for the next level of DT involving process automation and control towards Construction 4.0 to be implemented for different phases of the project lifecycle (design–planning–construction).

A Survey on Digital Twins: Architecture, Enabling Technologies, Security and Privacy, and Future Prospects

By interacting, synchronizing, and cooperating with its physical counterpart in real time, digital twin (DT) is promised to promote an intelligent, predictive, and optimized modern city. Via interconnecting massive physical entities and their virtual twins with inter-twin and intra-twin communications, the Internet of DTs (IoDT) enables free data exchange, dynamic mission cooperation, and efficient information aggregation for composite insights across vast physical/virtual entities. However, as IoDT incorporates various cutting-edge technologies to spawn the new ecology, severe known/unknown security flaws, and privacy invasions of IoDT hinder its wide deployment. Besides, the intrinsic characteristics of IoDT, such as decentralized structure, information-centric routing, and semantic communications, entail critical challenges for security service provisioning in IoDT. To this end, this article presents an in-depth review of the IoDT with respect to system architecture, enabling technologies, and security/privacy issues. Specifically, we first explore a novel distributed IoDT architecture with cyber–physical interactions and discuss its key characteristics and communication modes. Afterward, we investigate the taxonomy of security and privacy threats in IoDT, discuss the key research challenges, and review the state-of-the-art defense approaches. Finally, we point out the new trends and open research directions related to IoDT.

The role of AI for developing digital twins in healthcare: The case of cancer care

Digital twins, succinctly described as the digital representation of a physical object, is a concept that has emerged relatively recently with increasing application in the manufacturing industry. This article proposes the application of this concept to the healthcare domain to provide enhanced clinical decision support and enable more patient-centric, and simultaneously more precise and individualized care to ensue. Digital twins combined with advances in Artificial Intelligence (AI) have the potential to facilitate the integration and processing of vast amounts of heterogeneous data stemming from diversified sources. Hence, in healthcare this can provide enhanced diagnosis and treatment decision support. In applying digital twins in combination with AI to complex healthcare contexts to assist clinical decision making, it is also likely that a key current challenge in healthcare; namely, providing better quality care which is of high value and can lead to better clinical outcomes and a higher level of patient satisfaction, can ensue. In this focus article, we address this proposition by focusing on the case study of cancer care and present our conceptualization of a digital twin model combined with AI to address key, current limitations in endometrial cancer treatment. We highlight the role of AI techniques in developing digital twins for cancer care and simultaneously identify key barriers and facilitators of this process from both a healthcare and technology perspective.

Digital twins for the designs of systems: a perspective

The design and operation of systems are conventionally viewed as a sequential decision-making process that is informed by data from physical experiments and simulations. However, the integration of these high-dimensional and heterogeneous data sources requires the consideration of the impact of a decision on a system’s remaining life cycle. Consequently, this introduces a degree of complexity that in most cases can only be solved through a simplified decision-making approach. In this perspective paper, we use the digital twin concept to formulate an integrated perspective for the design of systems. Specifically, we show how the digital twin concept enables the integration of system design decisions and operational decisions during each stage of a system’s life cycle. This perspective has two advantages: (i) improved system performance as more effective decisions can be made, and (ii) improved data efficiency as it provides a framework to utilize data from multiple sources and design instances. The novelty in the presented perspective is that it necessitates an approach that enables fleet-level (i.e., decisions that influence a plurality of systems) and system-level decisions. From a formal definition, we identify a set of eight capabilities that are vital constructs to bring about the potential, as defined in this paper, that the digital twin concept holds for the design of systems. Subsequently, by comparing these capabilities with the available literature on digital twins, we identify research questions and forecast their broader impact. By conceptualizing the potential that the digital twin concept holds for the design of systems, we hope to contribute to the convergence of definitions, problem formulations, research gaps, and value propositions in this burgeoning field. Addressing the research questions, associated with the digital twin-inspired formulation for the design of systems, will bring about more advanced systems that can meet some of the societies’ grand challenges.

Enabling collaboration on digital platforms: a study of digital twins

Digital platforms are transforming almost every industry today and are expected to revolutionize future value creation. Digital platforms require collaboration, but this is challenging especially in the manufacturing industry where sensitive data need shared and high investments are required. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to enhance the understanding of how to successfully collaborate on digital platforms in the manufacturing industry by developing a contingency framework. The study is an explorative single case study of a digital platform. More specifically, the study examined the development process of a digital twin platform created by a large high-technological company and its collaborative actors. The results are based on 21 semi-structured interviews and reveals that actors on digital platforms can face five types of challenges that hinder a successful collaboration: disadvantages of dependency, uncertainty regarding data management, varying customer needs, insufficient work methods, and unsuitable payment models. The analysis also reveals four strategies that can be used to address the challenges: transparency strategy, incentive model strategy, servitization strategy, and control strategy. Moreover, these findings are summarized in a contingency framework that explains which types of challenges that can be addressed with which strategies based on the specific prerequisites of each collaboration.

PROSPECTS AND TRENDS OF DIGITAL TWINS IN EDUCATION

This article briefly describes the nature, problems and issues of digitization of education, the perspective of the "digital twin" of the learner for the development of person-oriented education as an important issue of the process of digital transformation in education in the age of digital technologies, and the tendency of its development is mentioned.

On the Role of Digital Twins in Data Spaces

Industry 4.0 supports the vision of networked machines in decentralized production plants across the value chain. Hence, it requires highly connected partners exchanging relevant data about products, processes, and production resources. This paper proposes the usage of data spaces and digital twins to enable this Industry 4.0 vision and investigates the building blocks to realize a data space for Industry 4.0, e.g., the integration of digital twins inside the data space based upon the latest specification of the Industry 4.0 Asset Administration Shell. A prototypical implementation shows the feasibility of storing product carbon footprints inside a digital twin and sharing it over a data space with other partners.

Digital twins for the automation of the heritage construction sector

The implementation of emerging technologies generates new possibility for the Architectural Engineering and Construction sector. Specifically, the study focuses on the applications of Digital Twins in the heritage construction sector, an area characterized by significant potentials and challenges in various research fields (e.g., energy, digital technology, citizen engagement, cultural aspects, management, etc.). Bibliographic and scientometric analyses enable the systematic categorization of the literature, analyzing a total of 133 scientific publication realized in the years 2001–2023. The bibliometric analysis outlines time evolution, geographical distribution, type, and disciplinary fields of the publications. Meanwhile, the scientometric research identifies co-occurrence networks of authors, keyworks, and research topics. Thank to these techniques, the following research topics on Digital Twins in the Built Heritage have been identified and clustered: (i) Digital Twins and 3D scanner techniques; (ii) Digital Twins and virtual reality; (iii) Digital Twins and Heritage Building Information Model (HBIM); and (iv) Digital Twins and Internet of Things (IoT). Each technique is critically discussed, highlighting applications, methods, limitations, and gaps in the literature. This analysis also paves the way for future research directions and potential solutions to enhance the automation in the heritage sector. Additionally, a glossary of essential disciplinary terms is provided to guide the understanding of individual definitions as they apply to heritage constructions. The primary challenges relate to accuracy, security, interoperability, and synchronization of data and technologies from various sources, requiring appropriate verification and validation methodologies, as well as tailored standards, protocols, interfaces, and regulations. Moreover, ethical considerations should underlie the utilization of digitally driven predictions that incorporate human-computer techniques, and human–robot interactions. This extends to the formulation of specific policies, and legislation. Only through this approach, the immense potential of digital technologies can emerge to create cross-cutting professions, interactive engagement techniques, and compatible preservation and management activities.

The role of complexity for digital twins of cities

We argue that theories and methods drawn from complexity science are urgently needed to guide the development and use of digital twins for cities. The theoretical framework from complexity science takes into account both the short-term and the long-term dynamics of cities and their interactions. This is the foundation for a new approach that treats cities not as large machines or logistic systems but as mutually interwoven self-organizing phenomena, which evolve, to an extent, like living systems.

Ontologies in digital twins: A systematic literature review

Digital Twins (DT) facilitate monitoring and reasoning processes in cyber–physical systems. They have progressively gained popularity over the past years because of intense research activity and industrial advancements. Cognitive Twins is a novel concept, recently coined to refer to the involvement of Semantic Web technology in DTs. Recent studies address the relevance of ontologies and knowledge graphs in the context of DTs, in terms of knowledge representation, interoperability and automatic reasoning. However, there is no comprehensive analysis of how semantic technologies, and specifically ontologies, are utilized within DTs. This Systematic Literature Review (SLR) is based on the analysis of 82 research articles, that either propose or benefit from ontologies with respect to DT. The paper uses different analysis perspectives, including a structural analysis based on a reference DT architecture, and an application-specific analysis to specifically address the different domains, such as Manufacturing and Infrastructure. The review also identifies open issues and possible research directions on the usage of ontologies and knowledge graphs in DTs.

Digital twins for performance management in the built environment

Recent events worldwide of climate and geological origins highlight the vulnerability of our infrastructures and stress the often dramatic consequences on our environment. Accurate digital models are needed to understand how climate change and associated risks affect buildings, while informing on ways of enhancing their adaptability and resilience. This requires a paradigm shift in design and engineering interventions as the potential for adaptation and resilience should be embedded into initial brief formulation, design, engineering, construction and facility maintenance methods. This paper argues the need for smarter and digital interventions for buildings and infrastructures and their underpinning data systems that factor in topology (including geometry), mereology, and behavioural (dynamic) considerations. Digital models can be used as a basis to understand the complex interplay between environmental variables and performance, and explore real-time response strategies (including control and actuation) to known and uncertain solicitations enabled by a new generation of technologies. The paper proposes a digital twin model for the construction and industrial assets that paves the way to a new generation of buildings and infrastructures that (a) address lifetime requirements, (b) are capable of performing optimally within the constraints of unknown future scenarios, and (c) achieve acceptable levels of adaptability, efficiency and resilience.

Implementing Digital Twins That Learn: AI and Simulation Are at the Core

As companies are trying to build more resilient supply chains using digital twins created by smart manufacturing technologies, it is imperative that senior executives and technology providers understand the crucial role of process simulation and AI in quantifying the uncertainties of these complex systems. The resulting digital twins enable users to replay history, gain predictive visibility into the future, and identify corrective actions to optimize future performance. In this article, we define process digital twins and their four foundational elements. We discuss how key digital twin functions and enabling AI and simulation technologies integrate to describe, predict, and optimize supply chains for Industry 4.0 implementations.

Digital Twins in Healthcare: Methodological Challenges and Opportunities

One of the most promising advancements in healthcare is the application of digital twin technology, offering valuable applications in monitoring, diagnosis, and development of treatment strategies tailored to individual patients. Furthermore, digital twins could also be helpful in finding novel treatment targets and predicting the effects of drugs and other chemical substances in development. In this review article, we consider digital twins as virtual counterparts of real human patients. The primary aim of this narrative review is to give an in-depth look into the various data sources and methodologies that contribute to the construction of digital twins across several healthcare domains. Each data source, including blood glucose levels, heart MRI and CT scans, cardiac electrophysiology, written reports, and multi-omics data, comes with different challenges regarding standardization, integration, and interpretation. We showcase how various datasets and methods are used to overcome these obstacles and generate a digital twin. While digital twin technology has seen significant progress, there are still hurdles in the way to achieving a fully comprehensive patient digital twin. Developments in non-invasive and high-throughput data collection, as well as advancements in modeling and computational power will be crucial to improve digital twin systems. We discuss a few critical developments in light of the current state of digital twin technology. Despite challenges, digital twin research holds great promise for personalized patient care and has the potential to shape the future of healthcare innovation.

Digital Twins: The New Frontier for Personalized Medicine?

Digital twins are virtual replicas of physical objects or systems. This new technology is increasingly being adopted in industry to improve the monitoring and efficiency of products and organizations. In healthcare, digital human twins (DHTs) represent virtual copies of patients, including tissues, organs, and physiological processes. Their application has the potential to transform patient care in the direction of increasingly personalized data-driven medicine. The use of DHTs can be integrated with digital twins of healthcare institutions to improve organizational management processes and resource allocation. By modeling the complex multi-omics interactions between genetic and environmental factors, DHTs help monitor disease progression and optimize treatment plans. Through digital simulation, DHT models enable the selection of the most appropriate molecular therapy and accurate 3D representation for precision surgical planning, together with augmented reality tools. Furthermore, they allow for the development of tailored early diagnosis protocols and new targeted drugs. Furthermore, digital twins can facilitate medical training and education. By creating virtual anatomy and physiology models, medical students can practice procedures, enhance their skills, and improve their understanding of the human body. Overall, digital twins have immense potential to revolutionize healthcare, improving patient care and outcomes, reducing costs, and enhancing medical research and education. However, challenges such as data security, data quality, and data interoperability must be addressed before the widespread adoption of digital twins in healthcare. We aim to propose a narrative review on this hot topic to provide an overview of the potential applications of digital twins to improve treatment and diagnostics, but also of the challenges related to their development and widespread diffusion.

The pluralism of digital twins for urban management: Bridging theory and practice

Digital twins have great potential for improving urban management. However, the way that they are formulated seems to vary according to the aims of the urban management taking place. For instance, digital twins are made sophisticated and innovative when the urban manager wants to demonstrate technological prowess; they contribute to generating useful interventionist strategies if social engineering is occurring; they emphasize exploratory and collaborative mechanisms if the urban manager wants to uncover people's attitudes; and they tend to focus upon citizen engagement and mechanisms for social improvements when societal reform is the main aim. Yet those who build digital twins seldom declare their worldviews or specify why they are doing so, and this leads to two problems. Firstly, it becomes difficult to evaluate and compare different digital twins. Secondly, since urban management projects often have several contrasting aims, many researchers construct seemingly pluralistic digital twins which are, in fact, severely afflicted with inconsistency and poorly measured priorities as to what needs to be included and addressed. In order to clarify the situation, this paper comprehensively analyses the research literature to conceptualize different approaches to implementing digital twins. It then assesses three alternative, theoretical paradigms upon which a pluralistic digital twin might be grounded and evaluated, and it concludes that "critical realism", rather than "post-modernism" or "ontological flexibility' is the most appropriate.

Digital Twins in the Marine Industry

The ocean holds abundant resources, but the utilization of those resources for the marine economy presents a complex and dynamic industrial situation. Exploring sustainable development in this industry is of practical value, as it involves the rational use of marine resources while protecting the environment. This study provides an innovative review of the current application status of Digital Twins Technology (DTT) in various sectors of the marine industry, including the ship-building industry (SBI), Offshore Oil and Gas Industry, marine fishery, and marine energy industry. The findings reveal that DTT offers robust support for full life cycle management (LCM) in SBI, including digital design, intelligent processing, operation, and error management. Furthermore, this work delves into the challenges and prospects of DTT application in the marine industry, aiming to provide reference and direction for intelligent systems in the industry and guide the rational development and utilization of marine resources in the future.

OpenTwins: An open-source framework for the development of next-gen compositional digital twins

Although digital twins have recently emerged as a clear alternative for reliable asset representations, most of the solutions and tools available for the development of digital twins are tailored to specific environments. Furthermore, achieving complex digital twins often requires the orchestration of technologies and paradigms such as machine learning, the Internet of Things, and 3D visualization, which are rarely seamlessly aligned in open-source solutions. In this paper, we present an open-source framework for the development of compositional digital twins, i.e., advanced digital twins that link individual entities or subsystems to create a higher degree digital twin, allowing knowledge sharing and data relationships. In this open framework, digital twins can be easily developed and orchestrated with 3D-connected visualizations, IoT data streams, and real-time machine-learning predictions. To demonstrate the feasibility of the framework, a use case in the Petrochemical Industry 4.0 has been developed.

A framework using BIM and digital twins in facilitating LCSA for buildings

The building and construction industry generates 40% of annual global CO2 emissions, aside from other environmental and social impacts, while it contributes to economic and societal development as a whole. Life Cycle Sustainability Assessment (LCSA) is a proven methodology to assess the environmental, social and economic impacts of a product system over its lifecycle. Applying LCSA to the construction domain is not trivial, as it needs to gather and connect data across several fields. A clear research gap was identified in the lack of data integration and completeness to carry out LCSA. This paper addresses this gap and shows how the complementary use of Building Information Modelling (BIM) and Digital Twin (DT) sourced data can facilitate and improve the LCSA of buildings. It includes a review of the current state of the art; proposes a novel methodological framework based on existing standards, and emphasises the roles of BIM and DT for conducting LCSA in the building context; this is tested in a case study of a real office building. The outcomes of the study demonstrate that the inclusion of usually neglected social impacts can be considered under LCSA, and that BIM and DT data provides better impact estimates, which are necessary to evaluate the performance gap between design estimated impacts and measured ones. The challenges of implementing such a framework, as well as the limitations of existing technologies are also highlighted and discussed.

From digital control to digital twins in medicine: A brief review and future perspectives

The last few decades have been dominated by the need for digital control of various processes in biology and medicine. Advances in artificial intelligence (AI) over the last few years, and data being generated at extremely high rates and being analyzed and interpreted with the help of AI, have led to new approaches in medicine that include also optimization and real-time control algorithms. In particular, digital twins (i.e., digital replicas of biological systems: cells, tissues, organs, systems) have seen a fulminant rise over the last few years. We start this review by discussing briefly the use of digital control applied to various medical problems: from diabetes to anesthesia. Then, we focus on the extension of the digital control concept to the digital twins concept to improve not only the process control, but also to improve biomedical design, virtual testing of personalized therapies, and optimization of therapies (including drug delivery). We discuss the applications of such digital twins to preclinical research as well as clinical research. We conclude this review by outlining some benefits as well as ethical concerns surrounding the digital twins.

A standardized approach for measuring the performance and flexibility of digital twins

Numerous studies have focused on digital twins (DTs) and their applications. However, a common method for evaluating the performance of DTs is lacking. Digital twins performance assessment mechanism is crucial when improving or monitoring any process or system in a business, such a strategy could serve as a guide to help researchers and practitioners create more effective digital twins. Guided by these challenges, we propose a structured method for measuring the performance and flexibility of digital twins, and our study provides a procedure for quantitative calculation of the performance of DTs based on four key performance indicators (KPIs). Moreover, we propose a new KPI, DTflex, for determining the flexibility of digital twins. We evaluated the performance of DTflex as a KPI to demonstrate its use as a simple tool for designers and practitioners to quickly compare different DT methodologies, which might provide valuable input for the iterative improvement of DTs to increase their efficiency in future applications. The knowledge provided along with the method proposed in this paper is expected to help researchers and practitioners working in different fields to compare DT methodologies and DT performance which will lead to higher efficiency DT solutions and increased re-usage of existing DTs.

Digital Twins for the Future Power System: An Overview and a Future Perspective

The inevitable transition of the power system toward a sustainable and renewable-energy centered power system is accompanied by huge versatility and significant challenges. A corresponding shift in operation strategies, embracing more intelligence and digitization, e.g., a Cyber-Physical System (CPS), is needed to achieve an optimal, reliable and secure operation across all system levels (components, units, plants, grids) and by the use of big data. Digital twins (DTs) are a promising approach to realize CPS. In this paper, their applications in power systems are reviewed comprehensively. The review reveals that there exists a gap between available DT definitions and the requirements for DTs utilized in future power systems. Therefore, by adapting the current definitions to these requirements, a generic definition of a “Digital Twin System (DTS)” is introduced which finally allows proposing a multi-level and arbitrarily extendable “System of Digital Twin Systems (SDTSs)” idea. The SDTSs can be realized with an open-source framework that serves as a central data and communication interface between different DTSs which can interact by “Reporting Modules” and are regulated by “Control Modules” (CMs). Exemplary application scenarios involving multiple system levels are discussed to illustrate the capabilities of the proposed SDTS concept.



