Digital Twins from the Atom to the Rhythm
Our overarching goal is to develop a transformative integrative clinical, experimental and in silico-based pipeline to create a digital twin technology for patient-specific prediction. Digital twin technology holds the promise of the development and application of virtual models that replicate physiological processes and characteristics of diseases to reveal mechanisms, simulate disease progression, identify potential drug targets and simultaneously predict drug efficacy. While our planned approach is broadly applicable, here we will apply digital twins to the problem of identification of cardiac drug targets and prediction of the efficacy or cardiotoxicity of drugs in individuals. A major strength of our digital twin approach is that it incorporates data from the atomic structure to the cardiac rhythm, allowing the inclusion of individual differences that affect individual protein structure, cellular electrophysiology and electrocardiograms. Digital twins will allow for improved understanding of how variation between individuals modifies disease severity and drug cardiotoxicity risks. Such a technology is possible now due to the maturity of deep-learning based modeling and simulation approaches in conjunction with the increasing availability of ion channel protein structures in physiologically relevant states, and the development of patient-specific induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes (iPSC-CMs). Combining these developments will allow for the realization of high throughput testing for individuals to determine their disease- and drug-related risks. Indeed, our preliminary data indicate the promise of a new deep learning method to extract in silico representations of individual cellular electrophysiology and Ca2+ handling to digitally replicate the mechanistic cellular fingerprint. We will build a new digital twin framework across multiple system scales by bringing together new methods in atomistic scale simulation with recently developed cellular level models and deep learning networks to discover new protocols to extract needed model parameters from data and for translating from iPSC-CM to adult cardiac myocyte electrophysiology. We will develop and test an experimental and computational digital twin platform applied to problem of personal cardiac disease expression and drug-induced cardiotoxicity via a combined computational-experimental approach that will allow the construction, prediction and validation of patient-specific digital twin cardiac cells. We aim to 1) Develop cardiac ion channel protein digital twins for structure and function prediction, 2) Develop cardiac myocyte digital twins, and 3) Predict the patient-specific cardiac safety pharmacology of individual drugs and combined therapeutics. We are bringing together model simulations at the level of the atom in a totally new way to include genetic mutations spanning benign variants to ones with known arrhythmia risks (from which all other models can be developed by extension) and predict their impact on drug interactions and biological function modulations at different scales. The proposed studies have the potential to conceptually transform the field by generating an integrative, high-throughput framework that predicts individual responses to disease and drugs.
Artificial Intelligence powered virtual digital twins to construct and validate AI automated tools for safer MR-guided adaptive RT of abdominal cancers
Magnetic resonance imaging-guided adaptive radiotherapy (MRgART) allows for safer treatment of otherwise difficult-to-treat soft-tissue cancers in the abdomen, such as inoperable pancreatic cancers that occur close to highly mobile and radiosensitive gastrointestinal (GI) organs. MRgART enables daily replanning to compensate for organ shape variations through improved visualization of the tumor and nearby organs. However, nearby abdominal organs move considerably between and during treatment fractions and, crucially, accurate tracking of the dose distribution accumulated in those tissues is currently unavailable. Consequently, tumor prescription coverage is still often constrained to sub-optimal levels by design to conservatively reduce the risk of radiation toxicity to GI organs. We hypothesize that accurate estimates of doses to the surrounding mobile healthy organs, accumulated over all fractions, would enable a less conservative and more effective treatment of the full extent of the disease. Hence, the key clinical need we will address, to ensure improved local control and to reduce rates of local tumor progression and morbidity, particularly in the tumors adjacent to luminal GI organs, is the development of reliably accurate deformable image registration (DIR) methods to estimate the spatial dose accumulated to the mobile GI luminal organs throughout treatment from previous fractions. This proposal addresses the key need by developing, rigorously validating, and systematically measuring the gain in target coverage with an innovative deep learning DIR dose accumulation utilizing a cohort of virtual digital twins. In Aim 1, We will develop patient-specific virtual digital twin cohorts modeling 21 different temporally varying realistic GI motions encompassing respiratory and digestive motion. The twins will combine analytical modeling with the widely used XCAT digital phantoms. In Aim 2, the virtual digital twins will be used to optimize and rigorously validate our innovative progressive registration-segmentation deep learning network for GI organs. The key technical novelty of this approach is its ability to perform spatio-temporally varying regularization to model large deformations, not possible with most DIR methods. In Aim 3, the potential clinical gain of using AI- DIR dose accumulation compared with the clinical standard with conservative limits to the high dose region will be systematically simulated with a variety of GI tract motion using the VDT datasets. Potential impact: The developed and validated AI-DIR techniques, validated for realistic physiologic GI motions, will be applicable beyond pancreatic tumors and will apply to other GI soft-tissue cancers. Ultimately, the availability of well- validated dose accumulation techniques could enable clinicians to quantitatively determine the accumulated radiation dose distribution to luminal GI organs and appropriately account for the spillover radiation, thus leading to more personalized, safer, and possibly more effective radiation treatments.

Heart Digital Twin Analysis of Arrhythmias due to Infiltrating Adiposity
 Sudden cardiac death due to ventricular arrhythmias (VAs) is a leading cause of mortality world-wide. Despite advancements in anti-arrhythmia therapies, VA rates remain high in part due to an incomplete understanding of the underlying disease-induced arrhythmigenic substrate. In patients with prior myocardial infarction, traditional dogma has maintained that heterogeneous scarring in the ventricles forms the arrhythmia substrate. While clinical studies have utilized the visualization of ventricular scar in localizing VA ablation targets, these efforts have failed to significantly improve VA recurrence rates, suggesting that scar characterization alone may be insufficient for identifying and eliminating VA. Infiltrating adipose tissue (inFAT) is a newly recognized aspect of post-infarct remodeling. However, because inFAT is intermingled with scar, the specific role of lnFAT In VA propensity In patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy has never been explored. The overall obJectlve of this appllcatlon Is to use a novel combination of mechanistic personallzed computatlonal modellng ("dlgltal twin" of the heart), Imaging, electroanatomlcal mapping, ex-vivo human heart experiments, and artificial intelligence (Al) to comprehensively characterize the role of inFAT vs. scar in post-infarct VAs, and to develop a new digital-twin approach for guidance of VA ablation in patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy. Leveraging our advancements in the acquisition of high-quality ventricular images of scar and inFAT distribution, our expertise in personalized computational modeling and Al, and our clinical and experimental expertise, we propose to develop personalized heart digital twins of ICM patinets that incorporate scar and inFAT distributions and are parameterized with experimental data. Using the digital twins and intra-procedure data, we will explore the mechanistic role of inFAT in arrhythmogenic propensity and in the components of the VA circuit. We will also utilize the digital twinning technology to develop a comprehensive VA ablation guidance strategy that accounts for the roles of inFAT and scar in VA circuits. The project will culminate in a clinical translation feasibility study to demonstrate that the novel digital twins offer accurate prediction of VA ablation sites, and can be used for pre-procedure guidance and optimal targeting, eliminating extensive electroanatomical mapping. Successful execution of the proposed studies will provide new mechanistic understanding of the role of inFAT in promoting and sustaining VAs, and will lead to significant improvements in the clinical procedure of VA ablation. Completion of this project will also be a major leap forward in the integration of imaging, computational modeling, intracardiac mapping, and Al in the treatment of heart rhythm disorders.
Scalable Biomarkers and Generative Digital Twins for Personalized Neurostimulation in Depression
More than 100 million people in the United States currently show signs of clinical depression, approximately three times more than before the onset of the COVID-19 crisis. Currently, the main treatment options for such depressed individuals include pharmacological and psychological interventions, the acute and long-term effectiveness of which are significantly limited: up to one-third of patients develop treatment-resistant depression. Noninvasive neurostimulation therapies such as repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS)–where a magnetic coil placed over the cortex is used to focally stimulate the brain–have recently emerged as promising low-risk interventions for treatment-resistant depression. However, the mechanisms and appropriate parameters for this treatment remain poorly understood. In the best cases, rTMS can have dramatic effects, changing the course of a patient's life in hours. In many cases, however, it has little to no measurable effect. This raises the obvious question: why do current rTMS protocols work well for some individuals but not for others? Could we adapt protocols to work well for everyone, potentially providing reliable personalized treatment or even a lasting cure? A growing literature suggests this is possible if we learn to tailor treatment to individual differences in human neurophysiology. Here we propose an innovative and unique approach towards precision psychiatric neurostimulation: personalized modeling of treatment using “Generative Digital Twins”. To affordably build and scale Generative Digital Twins, we propose combining high density electroencephalography (HD-EEG)–which is non-invasive, inexpensive, and easily deployable–to measure longitudinal changes in brain connectivity during an accelerated rTMS treatment protocol for depression. Then, using controllable generative neural networks that allow detailed predictive simulations of individual response trajectories given rTMS treatment, we can begin to predict outcomes prior to treatment, understand individual responses, and personalize treatment parameters.
A Digital Hemodynamic Twin for Right Ventricular Dysfunction
Clinical decisions based on hemodynamic data –time-varying measurements of pressure and volume in the cardiovascular (CV) system– can be some of the most complex physicians will face. Yet they are consigned to tackle these decisions with little more than a mental model of the patient. From deceptively simple questions like whether a patient will respond to fluid resuscitation, to plainly challenging ones like whether the right ventricle will tolerate placement of a left ventricular assist device, the physician must mentally reconstruct a patient’s physiology from the shadows it casts in the form of clinical state measurements. Right ventricular (RV) dysfunction, in particular, represents a large class of problems in cardiology whose management is widely seen as challenging. This stems from inadequate RV monitoring tools and the challenge of gauging the RV’s interactions with other cardiovascular subsystems. Given detailed hemodynamic measurements a physician should be able to tap computational resources that would systematically infer a quantitative cardiovascular (CV) model that gave rise to it, thereby characterizing the RV and its interactions. Computational models such as these, which could be repeatedly updated as new sensor data stream in, are known as digital twins. Here we propose to develop and validate a digital “hemodynamic” twin to aid the management of right ventricular failure. Such a computational tool would allow the physician to explore a patient’s right ventricular physiology in silico and to predict the effects and the limits of drug therapy. Specifically, we aim to solve the inverse problem of system identification (SID) on real-world clinical data, both extending the computational tools for hemodynamic SID and validating them on a large number of patients. We will focus on patients who are susceptible to RV dysfunction, including outpatients with pulmonary hypertension and inpatients recovering from cardiac surgery in an intensive care unit. The creation of a digital twin will require only data that are collected using routine hemodynamic monitoring techniques that are widely available. We will test the fidelity of our SID tools, use the digital twins to search for new subtypes of pulmonary hypertension and post-cardiac surgery recovery, and determine the ability of newly identified cardiovascular parameters to predict patient outcomes.
Prototype System for AML Digital Twins
Conventional chemotherapy has reached its limits in treating Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML), the most common leukemia in adults. Many patients who receive intensive chemotherapy followed by allogeneic hematopoietic stem-cell transplant eventually relapse. Therapeutic results remain particularly dismal for relapsed or refractory and older patients, who are often unfit for intensive therapies. Several new therapy options with the potential to improve treatment outcomes have emerged, but they suffer from heterogeneity in responses and a lack of methods for identifying patients who might benefit from such therapies. New detailed simulations called Digital Twins are starting to be implemented in many sectors including engineering, manufacturing, and medicine. Digital Twins are a simulation of a real-world system or object that allows for experimentation without real-world consequences. A patient oriented Digital Twin would simulate physiological response or disease and allow for outcome predictions following treatment. We propose to build a prototype of the ‘AML Digital Twin’ system (AML-DT), an interactive system to be used by doctors with their patients in which the patient’s clinical and molecular data, collected from bone marrow aspirates and peripheral blood, will be used to instantiate a digital twin model of the patient’s disease. The digital twin will enable the doctor and patient to explore personalized model-based predictions of drug response, using measurable outcomes in light of background knowledge generated from publicly available molecular data from AML patients. Importantly, the AML-DT system will continuously improve by learning from the experiences of patients and their digital twin models. The work, conducted jointly with clinician-scientists and computational researchers at the Institute for Systems Biology, the University of Helsinki, and Tampere University will center on patient-specific drug sensitivity prediction of venetoclax in combination with azacitidine by integrating with an ongoing clinical trial, VenEx, that includes ex-vivo patient selection and molecular data generation from bone marrow aspirates from AML patients in Finland. A prototype of the AML-DT system will be deployed at the midpoint of the 5-year project period, coinciding with the completion of the clinical trial. Following assessment of the prototype, further developments to the AML-DT will be carried out to accommodate other AML therapies and recommendations made by patient advocates and clinicians.
Informing mechanistic rules of agent-based models with single-cell multi-omics
Cancer is driven by interactions between diverse cell types and their tissue microenvironment. Emerging single- cell and spatial transcriptomic systems are mapping cancer tissues, in the process capturing the diversity of cell types and states and exposing the importance of spatial cell interactions in determining therapeutic response in individual patients. Multi-omics software developed in ITCR—including CoGAPS, projectR, SpaceMarkers, and Domino developed by our group—can analyze single-cell and spatial multi-omics data to infer cell types and phenotypes in the tumor microenvironment, identify which cells interact, and discover how cell-cell interactions drive molecular changes. However, these analyses yield static snapshots that cannot capture the dynamics of cancer ecosystems. Mathematical modeling can “fill in the gaps” between these snapshots, allowing teams to form hypotheses on how and why cells interact, “encode” their hypotheses as simulation rules, and perform “virtual experiments.” However, simulation rules and their parameters are difficult to match to genomic data. This proposal bridges the gap between bioinformatics and mathematical biology by merging our bioinformatics soft- ware for single-cell and spatial multi-omics data with PhysiCell, an agent-based modeling framework developed by our group to simulate the movement and interaction of many individual cell agents in virtual tissue environ- ments. The “glue” between these packages is a novel cell behavior grammar that “encodes” cell rules learned from high-throughput data as intuitive, interpretable hypothesis statements that can be automatically transformed into simulation code. In this proposal, we refine the cell behavior grammar while analyzing previously published cancer data to create digital “templates” for key cell types in cancer ecosystems, refine PhysiCell to import the templates, and create PhysiCell Cloud: a free, “zero-install” cloud resource to build, execute, and visualize can- cer models without writing computer code. We refine CoGAPS, SpaceMarkers, projectR, and Domino to learn cell behavior rules from spatial transcriptomics data and format them with the grammar, and extend PhysiCell to read cell types, positions, and rules stored in standard single-cell, spatial, and multi-omics classes. We develop sophisticated pipelines for PhysiCell models that can quantify model uncertainty, automatically fit models to tran- scriptomics data, and validate models on real world tumor datasets. We extend PhysiCell Cloud to a full-fledged science gateway that includes secure and searchable user storage, data structures and code (APIs) to connect PhysiCell Cloud to Python, R, and Bioconductor pipelines in ITCR, and a cost-free high-performance computing backend to seamlessly run large-scale model exploration and uncertainty quantification pipelines. Educational expertise and community feedback—including from an advisory board, annual training workshops, and daily classroom use—will drive usability refinements. Altogether, this approach will bridge bioinformatics and mathe- matical modeling to provide a comprehensive platform for patient-specific mechanistic tumor modeling, to enable future computationally-drien experimental design, virtual clinical trials, and digital twins research.
A digital twin to track and predict the evolution of pediatric neuroblastoma tumors
This application is being submitted in response to the Notice of Special Interest (NOSI) identified as NOT-CA-24-015. The proposed project aims to pioneer the development of a tumor digital twin, specifically focusing on enhancing dosimetry and radiation biology within radiopharmaceutical therapy (RPT). By leveraging advanced computational models, this initiative addresses the significant gap in applying rigorously validated digital twins for clinical and, notably, radiation oncology purposes. The emergence of RPT as a potent therapeutic option in cancer care, employing targeted ligands labeled with radioactive elements, presents unique challenges and opportunities. Unlike conventional external beam radiation therapy (EBRT), RPT molecular nature results in a heterogeneous dose distribution influenced by the differential expression of targeted receptors across tumors. Our overarching goal is to construct a comprehensive and validated digital twin platform for neuroblastoma tumors, encompassing the intricate dynamics of tumor evolution and the specificities of radiopharmaceutical administration. In close alignment with an ongoing project focused on pediatric neuroblastoma within the U54 ROBIN initiative, this proposal aims to complement and extend existing research by incorporating a hybrid agent- based model (ABM) capable of simulating tumor dynamics and radiation effects, including the beta emissions from 131I-MIBG used for these patients. We introduce several novel aspects, including utilizing a hybrid multi- scale ABM capable of handling clinically relevant tumor sizes, an explicitly modeled interacting vasculature, and integrating Monte Carlo techniques for state-of-the-art dose calculation. The project is positioned to adapt these innovations to neuroblastoma, leveraging patient-specific data from clinical trials to inform the digital twin platform. The approach includes developing the digital twin with a keen focus on tumor heterogeneity and radiopharmaceutical dynamics and adapting the model to neuroblastoma by incorporating trial data for calibration and validation. Through these efforts, the project endeavors to create a predictive model that can simulate individual patient responses to 131I-MIBG therapy, thus offering a translational tool poised to transform pediatric oncology treatment strategies. This project promises to contribute substantially to the field by achieving its objectives and providing a scientifically rigorous yet clinically applicable digital twin platform. This platform will advance our understanding of RPT dosimetry and radiation biology and pave the way for personalized, optimized cancer treatment strategies, ultimately improving patient outcomes in pediatric oncology.
A Digital Twin for Designing Bladder Treatment informed by Bladder Outlet Obstruction Mechanobiology (BOOM)
Prostate enlargement arising from benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH) can constrict the urethra, causing bladder outlet obstruction (BOO), a major contributing factor to the lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) that affect aging men. The BOO bladder is capable of generating the elevated pressures necessary to overcome the rise in outlet resistance and void through an increase in bladder smooth muscle cell mass. However, prolonged elevation in voiding pressures induces progressive mechanobiological changes to the bladder wall that lead to LUTS, including storage and voiding dysfunction. With rising numbers of BPH worldwide, prostate surgery to treat BOO will increase in frequency. Therefore, there is an urgent need to understand why 30% of prostrate surgeries to treat BOO are ineffective at resolving LUTS and to identify more effective treatment strategies. We believe the reason for this gap in knowledge is that insufficient attention has been given to understanding the coupling between changes to the bladder wall and voiding/filling (V-F) dysfunction. Indeed, we currently lack a full 3D biomechanical model for the whole bladder V-F process for even healthy bladders, let alone for the BOO bladder as it goes through progressive changes over time scales of weeks and months. Our limited understanding of bladder biomechanics is in sharp contrast to our knowledge of heart biomechanics, for which sophisticated multi-scale, multi-physics models of the cyclic filling and emptying of the heart chambers have been developed to understand cardiac disease and design patient specific treatments. Promisingly, there is opportunity to capitalize on tools and experimental/computational approaches developed for other organs, such as the heart, to rapidly advance the bladder biomechanics research field towards clinical impact. To address this need, this R01 project will make use of state of the art in vivo and in vitro studies of BOO in a rat model to drive the development of a digital twin of the whole BOO bladder. This data and the in silico model will enable a mechanistic understanding of how changes to the BOO bladder cause progressive bladder dysfunction and how this dysfunction can be ameliorated through reversal surgery and pharmacological treatment. The focus of Aim 1 is dysfunction in the V-F process. A 3D finite element model of urodynamics coupled with data from the BOO rat model will be used to determine how changes to the bladder drive dysfunction in the V-F cycle, at each stage of BOO. In Aim 2, we will determine how pharmacological treatment can be used to ameliorate bladder dysfunction. Progressive changes to bladder wall will be modeled over a time scale of weeks using our computational framework for BOO mechanobiology. In Aim 3, we will use animal data and the digital twin to determine mechanistic causes for bladder response to reversal surgery and identify conditions for functional recovery with regards to surgical timing and pharmacological intervention. Our long-term objectives are to develop a digital twin for medical research and translated to the clinic to guide surgical intervention choices and develop pharmacologic treatment for male LUTS associated with BPH/BOO.
Digital Twin for Radiation-Induced Immune Suppression Estimation and Reduction
This application is being submitted in response to the Notice of Special Interest (NOSI) identified as NOT-CA-24-015. Radiation-induced lymphopenia (RIL) is a common immunotoxicity associated with radiotherapy (RT) or chemoradiotherapy. Severe RIL (sRIL) has been shown to significantly impact patient survival and other outcomes. Most recently, it has become evident that sRIL can also diminish the effectiveness of immunotherapy significantly, when used in conjunction with RT. We have demonstrated that proton therapy, because of its smaller dose bath, can lead to significant sparing of the immune system. Project 2 of the parent NCI P01 is exploring the dosimetric and clinical determinants of RIL and correlation of RIL with patient outcomes, developing personalized machine learning RIL prediction models, and investigating strategies to mitigate RIL for cancers of the esophagus, lung, brain, liver, and pancreas. Our preliminary studies have suggested that the most effective RIL mitigation approach is the use of intensity- modulated proton therapy (IMPT) optimized based on personalized RIL models. The purpose of the research proposed in this supplement application is to develop a DTRO framework with the following objectives: (1) Incorporate the response deduced from lymphocyte depletion rate after initial treatment fractions (up to 5) to dynamically boost the RIL prediction accuracy for a given patient and adapt (reoptimize) the IMPT plan to minimize immune toxicity. (2) Validate and dynamically update the personalized RIL prediction models based on continuous feedback from actual responses. (3) Quantify uncertainties in model predictions and consider them when making treatment decisions. Specific Aims include the following: (1) Deploy and evaluate a bi-directional feedback DTRO system between the physical and virtual components of the Phase I clinical trial planned in Project 2 of the parent grant. (2) Amend the Phase I trial schema to form a feedback loop to dynamically update the personalized models. (3) Conduct uncertainty quantification analyses to establish confidence intervals around the model predictions and incorporate uncertainty estimates in decisions before treatment start and again after adaptation and reoptimization based on the response to initial fractions. The proposed trial will be implemented for a cohort of esophagus patients to investigate the potential of DTROs in general and the clinical effectiveness of the RIL mitigation approach. Our research will utilize multiscale data, including patient clinical characteristics, dosimetric parameters, adjuvant and concurrent chemotherapy details, and immune system biomarkers for a large cohort of esophagus patients previously treated at our institution. Similar data will be collected for each patient enrolled and treated prospectively in the DTRO-based trial. This research will be a collaborative effort among radiation oncologists, radiation physicists and data scientists. Our ultimate objective is to gain a comprehensive understanding of factors contributing to RIL incidence and severity. We will incorporate this knowledge to enhance the accuracy of prediction models and apply them to optimize treatment plans and clinical decision-making. We anticipate that this DTRO will lead to further improvements in outcomes beyond what is possible with the research proposed in the parent P01. Concepts and models developed as part of this research will be made available for broader use.
Dynamic models of the cardiovascular system capturing years, rather than heartbeats
Predicting how a particular patient's vascular system with respond to different treatment or stimuli and adapt over long periods of time remains a grand challenge in precision medicine. The lack of real-time turn around critically limits our ability to search a wide treatment space to identify optimal intervention plans based on long-term, personalized predictions. Moreover, it prevents real-time monitoring of a patient's hemodynamics based on streaming, dynamic data such as that acquired from wearables. By moving from simulations that can capture only several heartbeats to modeling months or even years, we shift the utilization of patient-specific digital twins to provide on-demand tracking of a patient's hemodynamic state. Such data would improve screening for cardiovascular disease, improved monitoring, and finally, inform treatment planning by enabling prediction of longterm flow effects currently not attainable. The major objective of this proposal is to develop and apply a methodology coupling physics-based simulations with machine learning that, combined with wearable sensors, provides real-time, personalized predictions of 3D, complex hemodynamic patterns over months to years. A better understanding of how a patient's circulatory system and underlying hemodynamics responds under different physiological states over time is of broad relevance to treating a wide range of vascular diseases.
Cancer Informatics Shared Resource
Cancer Informatics Shared Resource Summary Modern cancer research critically depends on advanced computing, data analysis, and modeling for the generation of basic and translational experimental data; harmonization, secure storage, and retrieval of clinical data; clinical-molecular data integration; and interpretation, annotation, and integration of results. The Cancer Informatics Shared Resource (CISR) provides Masonic Cancer Center (MCC) members with cutting-edge multi-omics data analytics and translational data science, advanced natural language processing research and application development, data storage infrastructure, and expert consulting and collaboration to support all aspects of their research. CISR is a combination of the previous Bioinformatics and Clinical Informatics Shared Resources. It is led by Dr. Jinhua Wang, a Full Professor in the University of Minnesota Institute for Health Informatics and a computational biologist with research interests in computational modeling of high-throughput cancer multi- omics data. He is supported by Dr. Scott Walmsley, who was recruited to lead proteomics/DNA adductomics informatics, and Dr. Steven Johnson, who heads the Clinical Informatics Shared Service (CISS). Additional staff were recruited or promoted, and a genomics data repository was built to link genomic information with clinical health records. CISR will achieve its mission through 5 specific aims: 1) Support MCC researchers with advanced capabilities in cancer multi-omics informatics and clinical data science and analytics, through a FAIR and artificial intelligence/machine learning–ready data environment; 2) Pursue development of new methods in the areas of single-cell multi-omics, spatial transcriptomics imaging, and AI deep learning predictive models for cancer research; 3) Enhance clinical trial recruitment via data-driven understanding of the factors determining accrual success and decision models to enhance accrual; 4) Develop and provide integration infrastructure and methods towards developing cancer patient Digital Twins to support predictive oncology research and patient care; and 5) Provide education and training in multi-omics data analytics, spatialomics data integration, and precision oncology. CISR also has close collaborations with the Clinical Trials Office, Translational Therapy Shared Resource, Biostatistics Shared Resource, and the Cancer Research Translational Initiative within MCC, as well as with the Institute for Health Informatics and the Clinical and Translational Science Institute in the larger University community. In fiscal year 2022, 47 individuals used CISR services, of whom 41 were MCC members.
Opportunistic Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease Risk Estimation at Abdominal CTs with Robust and Unbiased Deep Learning
Atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) is the main cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide, and affects 18+ million adults nationally. However, 80% of ASCVD deaths may be prevented with prompt intervention following early screening for ASCVD risk – a powerful rationale for the unmet need of accurate subclinical ASCVD diagnoses. Thus, in this study we assess whether a deep learning (DL)-based analysis of pre-existing abdominal computed tomography (CT) scans paired with electronic medical records (EMR) improves prediction of cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, and stroke in a large multi-site primary prevention population. We will conduct this study in a large, diverse, real-world population with an external validation to ascertain whether we can improve upon the clinically-utilized pooled cohort equations (PCE) that have numerous shortcomings. 20+ million abdominal CT scans performed annually in the US. While these scans answer specific clinical questions, quantitative information related to tissue phenotypes associated with cardiometabolic risk is simply not evaluated. DL algorithms can be used to quantify body composition metrics for adipose tissue, muscle, bone, liver, and vascular calcifications, which can all be used to improve upon the PCE for determining cardiovascular events. In aim 1 of our proposal, we will build automated segmentation algorithms with a built-in quality control mechanism to extract these body composition metrics in 125,000+ diverse subjects to ascertain population-level normative values of tissue size and radiodensity. In aim 2, we will augment the PCE covariates with these body composition values and additional EMR features for predicting ASCVD risk with advanced DL models. Moreover, we will devise new algorithmic approaches for improving health equity by ensuring similar model performance across patient sub-groups of PCE eligibility, race/ethnicity, insurance type, and CT scanner make/model. In aim 3, we will build a new ASCVD risk estimator that directly uses 3D imaging data. We will augment this end-to-end prediction approach by integrating multi-modal models that leverage both imaging data and EMR data. Realizing the need for improved explainability of DL solutions, we will build digital twins of each subject to describe why model predictions are being made and what changes a patient could make to lower ASCVD risk. We will train all models on data from Stanford (25k patients), test on data from Stanford (8k patients), and externally validate the models on data from three Mayo Clinic sites (20k+ patients) to assess the generalizability of our tools. We have assembled an inter-disciplinary MPI team of DL experts, cardiologists, and abdominal radiologists to build such ASCVD risk models. We develop innovative tools to improve accuracy, generalizability, bias, and explainability of DL-based ASCVD risk models. Our long-term goal is to enable early detection of silent atherosclerosis and trigger interventions that may ultimately prevent over 800,000 death, myocardial infarction, and stroke events in diverse Americans annually.

Translating Personalized Inference from Randomized Clinical Trials to Real-World Cardiovascular Care
The application of machine learning (ML) to randomized clinical trials (RCTs) represents a novel avenue for developing tools to enhance precision cardiovascular care. ML-based predictive approaches can learn response profiles based on the clinical characteristics of patients included in RCTs, thereby allowing personalized inference. However, despite the development of promising algorithms from applying these novel methods to high-quality experimental data in RCTs, there is a lack of a clear pathway for their real-world evaluation and implementation. To bridge this gap, we aim to develop an implementation-aligned strategy for care personalization models. We achieve this through our three study aims. In Aim 1, we will empirically evaluate various ML approaches for RCT using adequately powered simulated heterogeneous treatment effects, specifically incorporating covariate distributions observed in real-world patients from two distinct and diverse health systems. Using participant-level data from five diverse NIH-funded RCT datasets, we will evaluate models based on their performance in detecting simulated graded positive control heterogeneous treatments effects in these RCTs as well as in “digital twins” of these RCTs, computationally designed to replicate populations of these conditions in the practice in electronic health records (EHRs). Such an approach is needed to evaluate model generalizability to different populations expected in EHRs. In Aim 2, we enhance the interoperability between RCTs and EHRs, which is required for translating RCT-derived models to EHRs as well as selecting candidate predictors based on their EHR availability. We will accomplish this by mapping covariates from RCTs to a common data model, using a novel sentence transformer to map the descriptions of these covariates to those in the common data model. We will demonstrate real-world RCT covariate distribution at 13 hospitals across two health system EHRs mapped to the same common data model. In Aim 3, we will address the informative missingness of covariates in the real-world data, representing another key challenge limiting the pragmatic evaluation of algorithms developed from RCTs. For this, we will prospectively evaluate novel approaches that adapt models for variable missingness, both random and informative, during the model development process. In this study, we will assess whether “missingness-adapted algorithms” accurately capture the personalized effect estimates for patients, compared with a complete-covariate algorithm whose covariates are captured prospectively through direct patient contact. Collectively, the proposal will develop an end-to-end strategy for evaluating models developed from RCTs to improve their selection for real-world, pragmatic evaluation and implementation in EHRs. The methods will be rigorously tested in multiple RCTs. Moreover, through open-source data sharing, the datasets and the results of our work will be available as benchmarks for the rigorous development of further methodology for detecting personalized effects from RCTs. The proposal will serve as an essential framework for evaluating and translating precision care tools developed from RCTs.

Precision Medicine Digital Twins for Alzheimer’s Target and Drug Discovery and Longevity
Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is a devastating neurodegenerative disease and it is lack of effective disease-modifying treatments. Medical digital twins are computational disease models for target identification and drug discovery. However, how to organize and prioritize drug targets and candidate AD treatments in digital twins at drugome- wide and genome-wide scales are challenging. Our team developed AlzGPS, a genome-wide positioning systems platform to catalyze multi-omics for AD drug discovery. We also created The Alzheimer’s Cell Atlas (TACA), a single-cell transcriptomics and network pathobiology map for target identification and drug repurposing at brain cellulome-wide scales. We demonstrated that systematic identification and characterization of underlying pathogenesis and disease progression at cellulome- and genome-wide scales, will serve as a foundation for identifying and validating disease-modifying targets and treatments in AD or even longevity. We hypothesize that the digital twins tools for coordinated acquisition and seamless curation of multimodal data will be transferrable to any aging therapeutic development domains and will be applicable beyond digital twins, to expand artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (AI\ML) workflows in AD target and drug discovery. We thus posit that a drugome-wide and genome-wide, precision medicine digital twins platform that identifies likely causal AD genes and networks from human genome sequencing and multi-omics findings, enables a more complete mechanistic understanding of AD pathobiology and the rapid development of disease-modifying targets and treatments with great success. Our goal is to ethically acquire and responsibly disseminate comprehensive patient-specific multimodal data sets, which will form the basis for scientific, technological, and translational studies to design and evaluate digital twins, and explore their integration to AD target and drug discovery. Aim 1 will develop and test an interpretable mechanistic deep learning framework to identify disease-modifying targets and networks for AD and longevity. We will develop a human protein-protein interactome network topology-based deep learning framework (R21 phase) and identify putative drug targets for AD and longevity through integrating multimodal data (genetics, genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, and clinical) from AD sequencing project (ADSP), the AD knowledge portal, Longevity Consortium, and the Accelerating Medicines Partnership-AD (R33 phase). Aim 2 will develop and apply AI\ML technologies for collaborative end-to-end analyses of single-cell multi-ome data. We will develop and implement a graph embedded gaussian mixture variational autoencoder network algorithm (R21 phase) and identify AD cell type-specific genes/targets, regulatory networks, and ligand- receptor interactions (R33 phase). Aim 3 will implement and test precision medicine Digital Twins for drug repurposing in AD and AD-related dementia (R33 phase). All Digital Twins codes, toolbox packages, and data developed will be shared through the ADSP and the AD knowledge portal based on the FAIR principles. This project is highly feasible and potentially transformative for both Alzheimer’s data science and precision medicine.
Artificial Intelligence powered virtual digital twins to construct and validate AI automated tools for safer MR-guided adaptive RT of abdominal cancers
Magnetic resonance imaging-guided adaptive radiotherapy (MRgART) allows for safer treatment of otherwise difficult-to-treat soft-tissue cancers in the abdomen, such as inoperable pancreatic cancers that occur close to highly mobile and radiosensitive gastrointestinal (GI) organs. MRgART enables daily replanning to compensate for organ shape variations through improved visualization of the tumor and nearby organs. However, nearby abdominal organs move considerably between and during treatment fractions and, crucially, accurate tracking of the dose distribution accumulated in those tissues is currently unavailable. Consequently, tumor prescription coverage is still often constrained to sub-optimal levels by design to conservatively reduce the risk of radiation toxicity to GI organs. We hypothesize that accurate estimates of doses to the surrounding mobile healthy organs, accumulated over all fractions, would enable a less conservative and more effective treatment of the full extent of the disease. Hence, the key clinical need we will address, to ensure improved local control and to reduce rates of local tumor progression and morbidity, particularly in the tumors adjacent to luminal GI organs, is the development of reliably accurate deformable image registration (DIR) methods to estimate the spatial dose accumulated to the mobile GI luminal organs throughout treatment from previous fractions. This proposal addresses the key need by developing, rigorously validating, and systematically measuring the gain in target coverage with an innovative deep learning DIR dose accumulation utilizing a cohort of virtual digital twins. In Aim 1, We will develop patient-specific virtual digital twin cohorts modeling 21 different temporally varying realistic GI motions encompassing respiratory and digestive motion. The twins will combine analytical modeling with the widely used XCAT digital phantoms. In Aim 2, the virtual digital twins will be used to optimize and rigorously validate our innovative progressive registration-segmentation deep learning network for GI organs. The key technical novelty of this approach is its ability to perform spatio-temporally varying regularization to model large deformations, not possible with most DIR methods. In Aim 3, the potential clinical gain of using AI- DIR dose accumulation compared with the clinical standard with conservative limits to the high dose region will be systematically simulated with a variety of GI tract motion using the VDT datasets. Potential impact: The developed and validated AI-DIR techniques, validated for realistic physiologic GI motions, will be applicable beyond pancreatic tumors and will apply to other GI soft-tissue cancers. Ultimately, the availability of well- validated dose accumulation techniques could enable clinicians to quantitatively determine the accumulated radiation dose distribution to luminal GI organs and appropriately account for the spillover radiation, thus leading to more personalized, safer, and possibly more effective radiation treatments.

