Digital twins for health: a scoping review
The use of digital twins (DTs) has proliferated across various fields and industries, with a recent surge in the healthcare sector. The concept of digital twin for health (DT4H) holds great promise to revolutionize the entire healthcare system, including management and delivery, disease treatment and prevention, and health well-being maintenance, ultimately improving human life. The rapid growth of big data and continuous advancement in data science (DS) and artificial intelligence (AI) have the potential to significantly expedite DT research and development by providing scientific expertise, essential data, and robust cybertechnology infrastructure. Although various DT initiatives have been underway in the industry, government, and military, DT4H is still in its early stages. This paper presents an overview of the current applications of DTs in healthcare, examines consortium research centers and their limitations, and surveys the current landscape of emerging research and development opportunities in healthcare. We envision the emergence of a collaborative global effort among stakeholders to enhance healthcare and improve the quality of life for millions of individuals worldwide through pioneering research and development in the realm of DT technology.

Advancements and challenges of digital twins in industry
Digital twins, which are considered an effective approach to realize the fusion between virtual and physical spaces, have attracted a substantial amount of attention in the past decade. With their rapid development in recent years, digital twins have been applied in various fields, particularly in industry. However, there are still some gaps to be filled and some limitations to be addressed. Here we provide a brief overview of digital twin advancements in industry and highlight the main pitfalls to avoid and challenges to overcome, to improve the maturity of digital twins and facilitate large-scale industrial applications in the future.
Digital twins in the built environment: Definition, applications, and challenges
Digital Twins (DT) implementation in the Built Environment (BE) industry is still in its early stages. Aiming to increase the knowledge about DT, this study analyzes how DT can be understood in the BE sector and investigates its different potential benefits and expected challenges. To do so, the Systematic Literature Review (SLR) approach was employed. Using 228 publications, the current study presents a proposed definition and structure for DT systems. The proposed structure is based on four main layers: physical, digital, application, and user layers. The study also classified the applications of DT into six groups: sustainability and environmental, facility management, safety, health, and risk management, structural performance, construction management, and architectural and urban-related applications. The challenges of DT implementation were also grouped based on industry-related, social and organizational, economic, technological, and political and legal challenges. Based on the results, future research directions and practical recommendations were presented to support the successful deployment of the technology. Digital Twins (DT); Digital technologies; Built Environment (BE)
Construction; Construction 4.0.

Digital twins’ implications for innovation
Digital transformation and emerging technologies create new business opportunities that differ from traditional requirements. Digital twins, referring to digital replicas of a physical entity, are rapidly developing and creating novel innovation opportunities. This study focuses on increasing the understanding of the implications of the use of digital twins for innovation, and case studies were used to gather evidence. The study offers an interesting contribution to the literature on digital twins, presenting a framework that demonstrates how digital twins are characterised, and how they contribute (impact) and are used (scope) in innovation processes in the context of innovation and technology management. In addition, the findings provide interesting implications for different practitioners interested in the utilisation of digital twins. Using the results of this study, managers can enhance their companies’ digital transformation by acknowledging the multiple uses of digital twins. Digital twins; service business; innovation; digital transformation; technologies; digital manufacturing; digital business; digitalisation; innovation processes.

Digital twins and deep maps
Mapping is now thoroughly digital at all stages of production and maps are widely used in digital form. This digital turn has transformed the nature of mapping and maps. Maps need no longer be static representations, but rather constitute spatial media, providing an interactive, dynamic means for creating, discussing, and sharing spatial information and mediating spatial practices. This has included the development of 3D mapping, including nascent digital twins and digital deep maps. In this short paper, we reflect on our attempts to produce a 3D city information model for Dublin that acts as a basic digital twin, which we have also used to explore deep mapping, as well as map projecting data onto a printed 3D map model of the city. We consider what digital twins and deep maps mean for how we understand the nature of mapping, arguing that they produce a dyadic intertwining of map and territory; a literal, material expression of post-representational, ontogenetic conceptions of mapping. 3D mapping, deep maps, digital twins, map projection, spatial media, virtual reality.

Digital Twins for Wastewater Treatment: A Technical Review
The digital twins concept enhances modeling and simulation through the integration of real-time data and feedback. This review elucidates the foundational elements of digital twins, covering their concept, entities, domains, and key technologies. More specifically, we investigate the transformative potential of digital twins for the wastewater treatment engineering sector. Our discussion highlights the application of digital twins to wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) and sewage networks, hardware (i.e., facilities and pipes, sensors for water quality and activated sludge, hydrodynamics, and power consumption), and software (i.e., knowledge-based and data-driven models, mechanistic models, hybrid twins, control methods, and the Internet of Things). Furthermore, two cases are provided, followed by an assessment of current challenges in and perspectives on the application of digital twins in WWTPs. This review serves as an essential primer for wastewater engineers navigating the digital paradigm shift. Digital twins; Urban water systems; Wastewater treatment.

Security and Optimization in IoT Networks Using AI-Powered Digital Twins
This study explores new ways to make IoT networks more secure and efficient by using advanced digital twin technology. The proposed system, named dynamic network resilience and optimization (DNRO), addresses the challenges of securing and making IoT systems work better. Traditional methods sometimes struggle with the complexity of connected devices, so a creative solution is needed. DNRO, the new approach, uses dynamic modeling, real-time monitoring, and smart response methods to make sure IoT networks are strong and work well. This research is important for improving how we manage IoT networks, offering a strong foundation to protect data and make sure everything runs smoothly despite new challenges and changes in the network.

Health Digital Twins in Life Science and Health Care Innovation
Health digital twins (HDTs) are virtual representations of real individuals that can be used to simulate human physiology, disease, and drug effects. HDTs can be used to improve drug discovery and development by providing a data-driven approach to inform target selection, drug delivery, and design of clinical trials. HDTs also offer new applications into precision therapies and clinical decision making. The deployment of HDTs at scale could bring a precision approach to public health monitoring and intervention. Next steps include challenges such as addressing socioeconomic barriers and ensuring the representativeness of the technology based on the training and validation data sets. Governance and regulation of HDT technology are still in the early stages. artificial intelligence, health digital twins, drug discovery, precision medicine, personalized medicine, precision public health.

Survey on digital twins for Internet of Vehicles: Fundamentals, challenges, and opportunities
As autonomous vehicles and the other supporting infrastructures (e.g., smart cities and intelligent transportation systems) become more commonplace, the Internet of Vehicles (IoV) is getting increasingly prevalent. There have been attempts to utilize Digital Twins (DTs) to facilitate the design, evaluation, and deployment of IoV-based systems, for example by supporting high-fidelity modeling, real-time monitoring, and advanced predictive capabilities. However, the literature review undertaken in this paper suggests that integrating DTs into IoV-based system design and deployment remains an understudied topic. In addition, this paper explains how DTs can benefit IoV system designers and implementers, as well as describes several challenges and opportunities for future researchers. Internet of vehicles; Digital twin; Simulation; Traffic systems.

Digital Twins in Human-Computer Interaction: A Systematic Review
With the spreading of Industry 4.0, cyber-physical systems, and tools for augmented and virtual reality, Digital Twin (DT) is gaining momentum in several areas of Computer Science and Engineering. This paper presents a systematic literature review that investigates the way DTs are described in Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) scientific literature. The study includes 23 papers selected through a systematic search on the 21 most ranked journals and conferences in the HCI area. As a result of this work, it appears clear that the way humans interact with DTs is a topic still far from being widely studied. A set of hints for future research about the relationship between HCI and DT constitute the main outcome of this paper.

Digital twins in medicine
Medical digital twins, which are potentially vital for personalized medicine, have become a recent focus in medical research. Here we present an overview of the state of the art in medical digital twin development, especially in oncology and cardiology, where it is most advanced. We discuss major challenges, such as data integration and privacy, and provide an outlook on future advancements. Emphasizing the importance of this technology in healthcare, we highlight the potential for substantial improvements in patient-specific treatments and diagnostics.

Big data, machine learning, and digital twin assisted additive manufacturing: A review
Additive manufacturing (AM) has undergone significant development over the past decades, resulting in vast amounts of data that carry valuable information. Numerous research studies have been conducted to extract insights from AM data and utilize it for optimizing various aspects such as the manufacturing process, supply chain, and real-time monitoring. Data integration into proposed digital twin frameworks and the application of machine learning techniques is expected to play pivotal roles in advancing AM in the future. In this paper, we provide an overview of machine learning and digital twin-assisted AM. On one hand, we discuss the research domain and highlight the machine-learning methods utilized in this field, including material analysis, design optimization, process parameter optimization, defect detection and monitoring, and sustainability. On the other hand, we examine the status of digital twin-assisted AM from the current research status to the technical approach and offer insights into future developments and perspectives in this area. This review paper aims to examine present research and development in the convergence of big data, machine learning, and digital twin-assisted AM. Although there are numerous review papers on machine learning for additive manufacturing and others on digital twins for AM, no existing paper has considered how these concepts are intrinsically connected and interrelated. Our paper is the first to integrate the three concepts big data, machine learning, and digital twins and propose a cohesive framework for how they can work together to improve the efficiency, accuracy, and sustainability of AM processes. By exploring latest advancements and applications within these domains, our objective is to emphasize the potential advantages and future possibilities associated with integration of these technologies in AM. Additive manufacturing; Big data; Machine learning; Digital twin; Data-driven.

Envisioning the Future of Personalized Medicine: Role and Realities of Digital Twins
Digital twins have emerged as a groundbreaking concept in personalized medicine, offering immense potential to transform health care delivery and improve patient outcomes. It is important to highlight the impact of digital twins on personalized medicine across the understanding of patient health, risk assessment, clinical trials and drug development, and patient monitoring. By mirroring individual health profiles, digital twins offer unparalleled insights into patient-specific conditions, enabling more accurate risk assessments and tailored interventions. However, their application extends beyond clinical benefits, prompting significant ethical debates over data privacy, consent, and potential biases in health care. The rapid evolution of this technology necessitates a careful balancing act between innovation and ethical responsibility. As the field of personalized medicine continues to evolve, digital twins hold tremendous promise in transforming health care delivery and revolutionizing patient care. While challenges exist, the continued development and integration of digital twins hold the potential to revolutionize personalized medicine, ushering in an era of tailored treatments and improved patient well-being. Digital twins can assist in recognizing trends and indicators that might signal the presence of diseases or forecast the likelihood of developing specific medical conditions, along with the progression of such diseases. Nevertheless, the use of human digital twins gives rise to ethical dilemmas related to informed consent, data ownership, and the potential for discrimination based on health profiles. There is a critical need for robust guidelines and regulations to navigate these challenges, ensuring that the pursuit of advanced health care solutions does not compromise patient rights and well-being. This viewpoint aims to ignite a comprehensive dialogue on the responsible integration of digital twins in medicine, advocating for a future where technology serves as a cornerstone for personalized, ethical, and effective patient care. digital health; digital twin; personalized medicine; prevention; prediction; health care system.

The role of computational science in digital twins
Digital twins hold immense promise in accelerating scientific discovery, but the publicity currently outweighs the evidence base of success. We summarize key research opportunities in the computational sciences to enable digital twin technologies, as identified by a recent National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine consensus study report. The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine (NASEM) recently published a report on the Foundational Research Gaps and Future Directions for Digital Twins1. Driven by broad federal interest in digital twins, the authoring committee explored digital twin definitions, use cases, and needed mathematical, statistical, and computational research. This Comment highlights the report’s main messages, with a focus on those aspects relevant to the intersection of computational science and digital twins. Digital twin definition and elements The NASEM report1 proposes the following definition of a digital twin, modified from a definition published by the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics2: “A digital twin is a set of virtual information constructs that mimics the structure, context, and behavior of a natural, engineered, or social system (or system-of-systems), is dynamically updated with data from its physical twin, has a predictive capability, and informs decisions that realize value. The bidirectional interaction between the virtual and the physical is central to the digital twin.” The refined definition refers to “a natural, engineered, or social system (or system-of-systems)” to describe digital twins of physical systems in the broadest sense possible, including the engineered world, natural phenomena, biological entities, and social systems. The definition introduces the phrase “predictive capability” to emphasize that a digital twin must be able to issue predictions beyond the available data to drive decisions that realize value. Finally, the definition highlights the bidirectional interaction that comprises feedback flows of information from the physical system to the virtual representation to update the latter, and from the virtual back to the physical system to enable decision making, either automatic or with humans in the loop (Fig. 1). The notion of a digital twin goes beyond simulation to include tighter integration between models, data, and decisions. The bidirectional interaction forms a feedback loop that comprises dynamic data-driven model updating (for instance, sensor fusion, inversion, data assimilation) and optimal decision making (for instance, control and sensor steering). The dynamic, bidirectional interaction tailors the digital twin to a particular physical counterpart and supports the evolution of the virtual representation as the physical counterpart changes or is better characterized. Data from the physical counterpart are used to update the virtual models, and the virtual models are used to drive changes in the physical system. This feedback loop may occur in real time, such as for dynamic control of an autonomous vehicle or a wind farm, or it may occur on slower time scales, such as post-imaging updating of a digital twin and subsequent treatment planning for a cancer patient. The digital twin may provide decision support to a human, or decision making may be shared jointly between the digital twin and a human as a human–agent team. Human–digital twin interactions may rely on a human to design, manage, and/or operate elements of the digital twin, such as selecting sensors and data sources, managing the models underlying the virtual representation, and implementing algorithms and analytics tools. An important theme that runs throughout the report is the notion that the digital twin be “fit for purpose,” meaning that model types, fidelity, resolution, parameterization, frequency of updates, and quantities of interest be chosen, and in many cases dynamically adapted, to fit the particular decision task and computational constraints at hand. Implicit in tailoring a digital twin to a task is the notion that an exact replica of a physical asset is not always necessary or desirable. Instead, digital twins should support complex tradeoffs of risk, performance, computation time, and cost in decision making. An additional consideration is the complementary role of models and data — a digital twin is distinguished from traditional modeling and simulation in the way that models and data work together to drive decision making. In cases in which an abundance of data exists and the decisions fall largely within the realm of conditions represented by the data, a data-centric view of a digital twin is appropriate. In cases that are data-poor and call upon the digital twin to issue predictions in extrapolatory regimes that go well beyond the available data, a model-centric view of a digital twin is appropriate — a mathematical model and its associated numerical model form the core of the digital twin, and data are assimilated through these models.
Digital twins in mechanical and aerospace engineering
Digital twins bring value to mechanical and aerospace systems by speeding up development, reducing risk, predicting issues and reducing sustainment costs. Realizing these benefits at scale requires a structured and intentional approach to digital twin conception, design, development, operation and sustainment. To bring maximal value, a digital twin does not need to be an exquisite virtual replica but instead must be envisioned to be fit for purpose, where the determination of fitness depends on the capability needs and the cost–benefit trade-offs.
Generative artificial intelligence empowers digital twins in drug discovery and clinical trials The concept of Digital Twins (DTs) translated to drug development and clinical trials describes virtual representations of systems of various complexities, ranging from individual cells to entire humans, and enables in silico simulations and experiments. DTs increase the efficiency of drug discovery and development by digitalizing processes associated with high economic, ethical, or social burden. The impact is multifaceted: DT models sharpen disease understanding, support biomarker discovery and accelerate drug development, thus advancing precision medicine. One way to realize DTs is by generative artificial intelligence (AI), a cutting-edge technology that enables the creation of novel, realistic and complex data with desired properties.

A 3D functional plant modelling framework for agricultural digital twins
Digital twins are a core industry 4.0 technology enabling the virtual replication of real-world objects, mimicking behaviours and states throughout their lifespan. While digital twins have shown significant benefits in industries such as manufacturing, transportation, and healthcare, their application in agriculture is still within its infancy. Their realisation also poses significant challenges, such as the creation of dynamic agricultural objects (e.g., plants). Existing literature on digital twins in agriculture identifies their limited ability to monitor physical objects without predictive capabilities and that there is a significant lack of 3D representations of plants with functional attributes. Yet, incorporating 3D representations of plants with underlying functionality in a digital twin can greatly improve growth, yield, and disease prediction accuracy. This enhancement enables various applications, such as assessing and developing pruning strategies, providing education to growers, guiding pruning robots, and optimizing spraying techniques. To that end, Functional Structural Plant Modelling presents a potential solution by representing the 3D architecture of plants and incorporating the functionality of different plant parts. By conducting a domain analysis of 3D plant phenotyping and FSPM, this study addresses the specific needs of digital twins in agriculture regarding FSPM. The investigation bridges the existing knowledge gap by identifying crucial concepts, including 3D plant modelling with underlying functionality and 3D plant phenotyping for digital twins. Specifically, a framework for 3D FSPM integration into agricultural digital twins is proposed. The framework not only acknowledges the associated requirements and challenges identified in existing literature but also lays foundation for the advancement of digital twins in the agricultural domain. Digital Twin; Precision Agriculture; Functional structural plant modelling (FSPM); 3d plant phenotyping.

An Approach to Develop Digital Twins in Industry
The industry is currently undergoing a digital revolution driven by the integration of several enabling technologies. These include automation, robotics, cloud computing, industrial cybersecurity, systems integration, digital twins, etc. Of particular note is the increasing use of digital twins, which offer significant added value by providing realistic and fully functional process simulations. This paper proposes an approach for developing digital twins in industrial environments. The novelty lies in not only focusing on obtaining the model of the industrial system and integrating virtual reality and/or augmented reality but also in emphasizing the importance of incorporating other enabled technologies of Industry 4.0, such as system integration, connectivity with standard and specific industrial protocols, cloud services, or new industrial automation systems, to enhance the capabilities of the digital twin. Furthermore, a proposal of the software tools that can be used to achieve this incorporation is made. Unity is chosen as the real-time 3D development tool for its cross-platform capability and streamlined industrial system modeling. The integration of augmented reality is facilitated by the Vuforia SDK. Node-RED is selected as the system integration option, and communications are carried out with MQTT protocol. Finally, cloud-based services are recommended for effective data storage and processing. Furthermore, this approach has been used to develop a digital twin of a robotic electro-pneumatic cell. digital twin; Industry 4.0; augmented reality; virtual reality; robotic electro-pneumatic cell.

Navigating urban complexity: The transformative role of digital twins in smart city development
This research systematically explores the burgeoning field of Digital Twins (DTs) within smart cities’ framework and urban development. Anchored by three research questions, the study delineates the theoretical underpinnings and practical implications of DTs at a city scale. It delves into the structure, operational dynamics, and diverse applications in various urban domains supported by case studies. Through a structured methodology employing the PRISMA framework, it includes an analysis of 64 pertinent studies from an initial pool of 519. The research synthesis highlights the dynamic nature of DTs, their multifaceted technological layers, and their instrumental role in shaping sustainable urban futures. Despite the promising outlook, the study also highlights several technological and real-world hurdles that need to be addressed to fully unlock the capabilities of DTs within urban environments. Digital twin; Urban design; Urban planning; Smart city; BIM, Industry 4.0.


Digital twins in safety analysis, risk assessment and emergency management
Digital twins (DTs) represent an emerging technology that is currently leveraging the monitoring of complex systems, the implementation of autonomous control systems, and assistance during accidents and emergencies in real time. However, aspects such as safety, cybersecurity and reliability of DTs are still open issues that have not been comprehensively addressed. These aspects can offer new insights to evaluate the risk and return obtained from the implementation of DTs. This paper presents a systematic literature review of DTs focused on their use in safety analysis, risk assessment and emergency management. The aim of this work is twofold: (i) to point at the latest advancements in this technology by presenting a catalog of expected functions and twinning enabling technologies in the application domains of interest; and (ii) to point at the limitations and pending challenges on the implementation of DTs for safety analysis, risk assessment and emergency management. Digital twin; Risk assessment; Safety analysis; Emergency management.

makeTwin: A reference architecture for digital twin software platform
Digital twin is currently undergoing a significant transformation from the conceptual and theoretical research phase to the implementation and application phase. However, a universally adaptable research and development platform for digital twin is critically needed to meet the development requirements. Specifically, a publicly accessible simulation, testing, and validation platform which can support digital twin model building, data processing, algorithm design, configuration, etc., is urgently required for researchers. Furthermore, for developers from the industry, a low-code development platform that can offer a customizable suite of functions such as model creation, data management, protocol configuration, and visualization is urgently needed. Meanwhile, for enterprise users, there is a lack of an application management platform that can be configured and migrated for various application scenarios, functions, and modes. Therefore, based on the system research of digital twin theories and key technologies by the authors (such as the five-dimension digital twin model, digital twin modeling and digital twin data theory, digital twin standards, and so on), a digital twin software platform reference architecture, namely makeTwin, is proposed and designed, as well as its ten core functions. The workflow of the makeTwin and the interaction mechanisms among its core functions are described. Finally, a digital twin application system for a chemical fiber textile shop floor (CFTS) which was developed according to makeTwin, is introduced, which validates the proposed reference architecture. Digital twin; Digital twin software platform; Industrial software; makeTwin; Reference architecture.


Digital Twins in Industry 4.0 – Opportunities and challenges related to Cyber Security
The technological advance present in Industry 4.0 (I4.0) has enabled the application of a wide range of technologies related to digitalization, connectivity, and automation. These technologies generate strong prospects of impact on the value chain, modernizing and optimizing distribution and production processes in manufacturing, as well as an exponential increase in the volume of data in cyberspace. In this context, Digital Twin (DT) is one of the advanced technologies embedded in the I4.0, which provides simulation capabilities to predict, optimize and estimate system states and configurations in a fully digital way in conjunction with cyber-physical systems. DT enables the replication of the real world in the virtual environment through the integration of technologies such as the Industrial Internet of Things, Cloud Computing, and Artificial Intelligence, generating data in real-time. As DT is at the center of a major paradigm shift in I4.0, the use of this technology enables opportunities to simulate cyber-attacks and defend scenarios without accessing the physical environment. However, these opportunities have some risks, as the connectivity implicit in DT between the physical and virtual environment increases the cyber-attacks surface. Cyber security becomes a critical concern to be addressed in projects that use and integrate DT. In this sense, this paper aims to analyze cyber security risks related to DT in the I4.0, and opportunities and challenges when using DT as a crucial component of a comprehensive security strategy, by providing means to simulate, test and monitor systems for vulnerabilities and threats. This study seeks to emphasize the need for best practices associated with the risks of cyber-attacks on virtual models, which can impact the physical systems they represent. This work makes a valuable academic contribution also by highlighting the importance of cyber security in the context of the use of DT in I4.0. Digital Twin; Industry 4.0; Cyber Security.

Digital Twins and Industrial Internet of Things: Uncovering operational intelligence in industry 4.0
The Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) and Digital Twins (DTs) are changing how digital models and physical products interact. IIoT connects to intelligence in the physical world, and DTs virtually represent their physical counterparts. As a result, DTs will be invaluable for testing and simulating new parameters and design variants. However, Despite the undeniable potential of DTs, they still cannot differentiate themselves from simulation technologies, and their application and adoption remain limited. This study defines the concept, highlights the evolution and development of DTs, reviews its key enabling technologies, identifies IIoT’s role as the backbone of DTs, examines DTs trends, highlights the key challenges, and explores its applications in the manufacturing process and Industry 4.0. Digital Twins; Internet of Things; Industrial Internet of Things; Industry 4.0; Blockchain; Technology trend analysis.

Digital Twins in intensive aquaculture — Challenges, opportunities and future prospects
Digital Twin technology has emerged to become a key enabling technology in the ongoing transition into Industry 4.0. A Digital Twin is in essence a digital representation of an asset that provides better insight into its dynamics by combining a priori knowledge of the system through mathematical models with online data acquired from sensors and instruments deployed in or at the physical asset. While the technology is seeing increased use across several different industrial, governmental and research sectors, and across scientific disciplines, its application within aquaculture is still in its infancy. However, due to the rapid ongoing development in technological methods in aquaculture, an increasing number of the building blocks required to make a Digital Twin for aquaculture purposes are becoming available. We set out to explore these possibilities by first defining a Digital Twin — what components it should contain, how it should be constructed, and outlining the capability levels of a finished Digital Twin. Our next step was then to explore the state-of-the-art within the different required components and enabling technologies within aquaculture, thereby identifying the current foundation for developing Digital Twin technology in this sector. Following this, we developed concrete case studies that elaborate upon how we by combining existing and developing new technological tools could envision developing Digital Twins for three application areas of high industrial relevance, namely oxygen conditions in sea-cages, fish growth in sea-cages and in-cage robotics and vehicle operations. In conclusion, we present our thoughts on the potential of Digital Twin technology in being a key component in ushering in Industry 4.0 in aquaculture, and outline a pathway on the way onward towards achieving this goal. Digital twin; Marine fish farming; Precision farming; Modelling.

A review on digital twins for power generation and distribution
This paper presents a systematic literature review on the application of digital twins in the energy sector. Initially, we generated an overview through a survey of prior reviews, independent of market vertical, then followed by a more detailed review concentrating on the power production and distribution domains, as per the NIST (National Institute of Standards and Technology) smart grid standard. We implemented a rigorous method, which included seven stages, beginning with the collection of 2238 articles. We observed that the energy sector range was too broad and filtered by generation and distribution during the practical screening, resulting in 275 for further screening. This amount was then condensed to 81 papers that matched the quality screening criteria for synthesis and examination. In summary, digital twin architectures and frameworks include five components: the physical entity, bidirectional communication, the virtual entity (with modeling and simulation), data management, and services. Our study contributed by determining that distribution management is the most pertinent application of digital twins in the distribution domain and fault diagnosis in the generation domain. Furthermore, we found that digital twins involve multiple stakeholders whose role is rarely discussed in studies, and we identified a similar absence of emphasis for security. Research on security often presents the digital twin as an additional layer of protection, yet rarely investigates the security of the digital twin by itself. The potential limitations of our study to answer some of the technical research questions may be because of the criteria for the selection of papers. However, as the emphasis of this study is on the energy sector, it enabled domain-specific findings for generation and distribution.

Digital twins and artificial intelligence in metabolic disease research
Digital twin technology is emerging as a transformative paradigm for personalized medicine in the management of chronic conditions. In this article, we explore the concept and key characteristics of a digital twin and its applications in chronic non-communicable metabolic disease management, with a focus on diabetes case studies. We cover various types of digital twin models, including mechanistic models based on ODEs, data-driven ML algorithms, and hybrid modeling strategies that combine the strengths of both approaches. We present successful case studies demonstrating the potential of digital twins in improving glucose outcomes for individuals with T1D and T2D, and discuss the benefits and challenges of translating digital twin research applications to clinical practice. digital twin; diabetes; nutrition; metabolism; artificial intelligence.

A digital twin framework for civil engineering structures
The digital twin concept represents an appealing opportunity to advance condition-based and predictive maintenance paradigms for civil engineering systems, thus allowing reduced lifecycle costs, increased system safety, and increased system availability. This work proposes a predictive digital twin approach to the health monitoring, maintenance, and management planning of civil engineering structures. The asset-twin coupled dynamical system is encoded employing a probabilistic graphical model, which allows all relevant sources of uncertainty to be taken into account. In particular, the time-repeating observations-to-decisions flow is modeled using a dynamic Bayesian network. Real-time structural health diagnostics are provided by assimilating sensed data with deep learning models. The digital twin state is continually updated in a sequential Bayesian inference fashion. This is then exploited to inform the optimal planning of maintenance and management actions within a dynamic decision-making framework. A preliminary offline phase involves the population of training datasets through a reduced-order numerical model and the computation of a health-dependent control policy. The strategy is assessed on two synthetic case studies, involving a cantilever beam and a railway bridge, demonstrating the dynamic decision-making capabilities of health-aware digital twins. Digital twins; Predictive maintenance
Bayesian networks; Deep learning; Structural health monitoring; Model order reduction.
Digital Twins in Agriculture: Orchestration and Applications
Digital Twins have emerged as an outstanding opportunity for precision farming, digitally replicating in real-time the functionalities of objects and plants. A virtual replica of the crop, including key agronomic development aspects such as irrigation, optimal fertilization strategies, and pest management, can support decision-making and a step change in farm management, increasing overall sustainability and direct water, fertilizer, and pesticide savings. In this review, Digital Twin technology is critically reviewed and framed in the context of recent advances in precision agriculture and Agriculture 4.0. The review is organized for each step of agricultural lifecycle, edaphic, phytotechnologic, postharvest, and farm infrastructure, with supporting case studies demonstrating direct benefits for agriculture production and supply chain considering both benefits and limitations of such an approach. Challenges and limitations are disclosed regarding the complexity of managing such an amount of data and a multitude of (often) simultaneous operations and supports. Digital Twins; Internet of Things; precise agriculture; agriculture 4.0; Industry 4.0.
Conceptualisation of a 7-element digital twin framework in supply chain and operations management
Digital twins became of greater interest to researchers and practitioners in supply chain and operations management (SCOM). Literature has addressed the need to understand digital twins in SCOM, mostly focusing on fragmented technological solutions and use cases. We start with an integrative literature review to determine which elements belong to research on digital twins in SCOM. We define the seven major elements of a digital twin in SCOM: technology, people, management, organisation, scope, task, and modelling. We also distinguish five major types of digital twins in SCOM: product, process, organisation, supply chain and network-of-networks. Illustration of a SCOM digital twin is provided using an anyLogistix example. We conclude that digital twins in SCOM are not merely a simulation-based replica of a real object but a complex socio-technical phenomenon involved in continuous human-artificial intelligence interactions. This leads to an understanding of the role of digital twins through the lens of Industry 5.0, reconfigurable and viable supply chains. Researchers and practitioners alike can use our framework to structure the knowledge on SCOM digital twins and consider all seven elements when designing and using digital twins.

Digital Twins in the Context of Seaports and Terminal Facilities
Increasing freight volumes and challenging environments in seaports and container terminals worldwide require streamlined and reliable operations. Digital twins are seen as important drivers of the digitalization in seaports by providing a basis for higher transparency, control and data-driven decision making. In this context, however, the concept is rarely studied, and implementation issues are not comprehensively discussed. The paper presents an exploratory study of digital twins in seaports based on a literature review and case studies. The analysis reveals a standardization deficit for digital twin implementations, an inflationary and improper use of the term digital twin, and fields of research that need to be explored further. The application of optimization methods and the integration of simulation-based optimization in the field of seaports and container terminals is examined, due to its relevance for digital twins. Important lessons learned can be taken from the most advanced implementations, integrating simulations and emulations with optimization methods. An in-depth examination of multiple case studies and discussions with global port leaders yields valuable perspectives on the varied levels of digital twin implementations being applied today, including insights into the most advanced implementations currently being used in ports and container terminals. As a result of the analyses conducted, various research directions and a research agenda are presented.

Digital twins-boosted intelligent maintenance of ageing bridge hangers exposed to coupled corrosion–fatigue deterioration
The corrosion–fatigue coupled deterioration of ageing steel bridge hangers presents significant structural challenges, demanding rigorous condition assessments and timely maintenance interventions. This paper introduces a framework of digital twins-boosted intelligent maintenance (DTIM) tailored for ageing hangers, integrating the prediction model, monitoring data and inspection results. The DTIM features a suite of algorithms adaptation and innovations, including dynamic Partially Observable Markov Decision Processes (POMDP), Asynchronous Advantage Actor Critic (A3C), and Bayesian Dynamic Linear Models (BDLM). The DTIM emphasises regular early-life repairs, strategic inspections, and timely replacements towards life-end, tailored to the condition of specific bridge hangers in the case study presented. By coordinating actions across hangers, the DTIM enables opportunistic maintenance to further optimise resource allocation. The output highlights digital twins in exploring the add-on value of monitoring and inspection for the proactive and sustainable maintenance of ageing infrastructure, promising enhanced structural integrity and serviceability in a cost-effective and well-informed manner. Ageing infrastructure; Steel bridge hanger; Corrosion–fatigue; Intelligent maintenance; Digital twins; Partially Observable Markov Decision; Processes (POMDPs).

Computational engine for finite element digital twins of structural dynamics via motion data
Typical structural health monitoring systems employ limited numbers of sensors capable of measuring discrete local behaviours. However, practical challenges arise as these sensor arrays cannot cover all local areas of interest. To address this challenge, this article introduces a novel method for twinning structural dynamic behaviour by constructing a finite-element-model-based digital twin, enabling the observation of non-sensor positions crucial for downstream tasks. The approach utilises streaming monitoring data, e.g., displacement and acceleration, as external dynamic loads to reproduce the dynamic response of the entire physical structure. Subsequently, the dynamic behaviour of specific non-sensor locations can be extracted from the digital twin. The method is formulated as a local-global-local procedure. To validate the proposed approach, two virtual experiments were conducted on: 1) a simply supported Euler-Bernoulli beam subjected to static loads and 2) a high-fidelity finite element model of a composite bridge carrying dynamic traffic loads. The results demonstrate remarkable accuracy in reproducing both global and local behaviours, facilitating observations at non-sensor positions for downstream estimations. Digital twin; Finite element method; Behaviour twinning; Sparse data; Connectivity development.

Exploring the synergies between collaborative robotics, digital twins, augmentation, and industry 5.0 for smart manufacturing: A state-of-the-art review
Industry 5.0 aims at establishing an inclusive, smart and sustainable production process that encourages human creativity and expertise by leveraging enhanced automation and machine intelligence. Collaborative robotics, or “cobotics”,is a major enabling technology of Industry 5.0, which aspires at improving human dexterity by elevating robots to extensions of human capabilities and, ultimately, even as team members. A pivotal element that has the potential to operate as an interface for the teaming aspiration of Industry 5.0 is the adoption of novel technologies such as virtual reality (VR), augmented reality (AR), mixed reality (MR) and haptics, together known as “augmentation”. Industry 5.0 also benefit from Digital Twins (DTs), which are digital representations of a physical assets that serves as their counterpart — or twins. Another essential component of Industry 5.0 is artificial intelligence (AI), which has the potential to create a more intelligent and efficient manufacturing process. In this study, a systematic review of the state of the art is presented to explore the synergies between cobots, DTs, augmentation, and Industry 5.0 for smart manufacturing. To the best of the author’s knowledge, this is the first attempt in the literature to provide a comprehensive review of the synergies between the various components of Industry 5.0. This work aims at increasing the global efforts to realize the large variety of application possibilities offered by Industry 5.0 and to provide an up-to-date reference as a stepping-stone for new research and development within this field. Digital twins; Industry 5.0; Deep learning; Augmentation; HRC.

Human Digital Twin in the context of Industry 5.0
Human-centricity, a core value of Industry 5.0, places humans in the center of production. It leads to the prioritization of human needs, spanning from health and safety to self-actualization and personal growth. The concept of the Human Digital Twin (HDT) is proposed as a critical method to realize human-centricity in smart manufacturing systems towards Industry 5.0. HDTs are digital representations of humans, aiming to change the practice of human-system integration by coupling humans’ characteristics directly to the system design and its performance. In-depth analysis, critical insights, and application guidelines of HDT are essential to realize the concept of Industry 5.0 in practice and evolve the smart manufacturing paradigm in modern factories. However, the investigation on the development of HDT to evolve humans’ roles and develop humans to their full potential is limited to date. Recent studies are rarely geared towards designing a standardized framework and architecture of HDT for diverse real-world applications. Thus, this work aims to close this research gap by carrying out a comprehensive survey on HDT in the context of Industry 5.0, summarizing the ongoing evolution, and proposing a proper connotation of HDT, before discussing the conceptual framework and system architecture of HDT and analyzing enabling technologies and industrial applications. This work provides guidance on possible avenues as well as challenges for the further development of HDT and its related concepts, allowing humans to reach their potential and accommodating their diverse needs in the futuristic smart manufacturing systems shaped by Industry 5.0. Human Digital Twin; Industry 5.0; Smart manufacturing; Human-centricity.

Methods for enabling real-time analysis in digital twins: A literature review
This paper presents a literature review on methods for enabling real-time analysis in digital twins, which are virtual models of physical systems. The advantages of digital twins are numerous, including cost reduction, risk mitigation, efficiency enhancement, and decision-making support. However, their implementation faces challenges such as the need for real-time data analysis, resource limitations, and data uncertainty. The paper focuses on methods for reducing computational demands, which have not been systematically discussed in the literature. The paper reviews and categorizes methods and tools for accelerating the modeling of physical phenomena and reducing the computational needs of digital twins.

TWIN-GPT: Digital Twins for Clinical Trials via Large Language Model
Clinical trials are indispensable for medical research and the development of new treatments. However, clinical trials often involve thousands of participants and can span several years to complete, with a high probability of failure during the process. Recently, there has been a burgeoning interest in virtual clinical trials, which simulate real-world scenarios and hold the potential to significantly enhance patient safety, expedite development, reduce costs, and contribute to the broader scientific knowledge in healthcare. Existing research often focuses on leveraging electronic health records (EHRs) to support clinical trial outcome prediction. Yet, trained with limited clinical trial outcome data, existing approaches frequently struggle to perform accurate predictions. Some research has attempted to generate EHRs to augment model development but has fallen short in personalizing the generation for individual patient profiles. Recently, the emergence of large language models has illuminated new possibilities, as their embedded comprehensive clinical knowledge has proven beneficial in addressing medical issues. In this paper, we propose a large language model-based digital twin creation approach, called TWIN-GPT. TWIN-GPT can establish cross-dataset associations of medical information given limited data, generating unique personalized digital twins for different patients, thereby preserving individual patient characteristics. Comprehensive experiments show that using digital twins created by TWIN-GPT can boost the clinical trial outcome prediction, exceeding various previous prediction approaches. Besides, we also demonstrate that TWIN-GPT can generate high-fidelity trial data that closely approximates specific patients, aiding in more accurate result predictions in data-scarce situations. Moreover, our study provides practical evidence for the application of digital twins in healthcare, highlighting its potential significance.

CitySim: A Drone-Based Vehicle Trajectory Dataset for Safety-Oriented Research and Digital Twins
The development of safety-oriented research and applications requires fine-grain vehicle trajectories that not only have high accuracy, but also capture substantial safety-critical events. However, it would be challenging to satisfy both these requirements using the available vehicle trajectory datasets do not have the capacity to satisfy both. This paper introduces the CitySim dataset that has the core objective of facilitating safety-oriented research and applications. CitySim has vehicle trajectories extracted from 1,140-min of drone videos recorded at 12 locations. It covers a variety of road geometries including freeway basic segments, weaving segments, expressway merge/diverge segments, signalized intersections, stop-controlled intersections, and control-free intersections. CitySim was generated through a five-step procedure that ensured trajectory accuracy. The five-step procedure included video stabilization, object filtering, multivideo stitching, object detection and tracking, and enhanced error filtering. Furthermore, CitySim provides the rotated bounding box information of a vehicle, which was demonstrated to improve safety evaluations. Compared with other video-based trajectory datasets, CitySim had significantly more safety-critical events, including cut-in, merge, and diverge events, which were validated by distributions of both minimum time-to-collision and minimum post encroachment time. In addition, CitySim had the capability to facilitate digital-twin-related research by providing relevant assets, such as the recording locations’ three-dimensional base maps and signal timings.

Development and analysis of digital twins of production systems
Production systems have to be adapted continuously to changing circumstances. This means that the responsible production planner has to frequently make decisions about reconfiguring complex systems under uncertainty whose outcome greatly affects the company’s business success. Discrete-event simulation is one powerful tool to support the necessary analysis and scenario evaluation, but still remains time-consuming and tricky to set up and to maintain. When implemented as a digital twin of the production system, the simulation model can maintain a high degree of accuracy over a long time period. An approach to realise this potential is presented and illustrated in this paper with a use case from the automotive industry. This paper contributes several new methods and findings to the development of digital twins of production systems: Firstly, it demonstrates how exceptional events in the validation of the digital twin can be handled. Secondly, it shows how structural changes in the system can be discovered using data on machine activity and process mining. Thirdly, the paper introduces a possibility on how to assess the accuracy of the digital twin. Furthermore, it demonstrates how to assess the robustness of the digital twin to estimation errors in machine processing times. Digital twin; material flow simulation; data analytics; process mining; model validation.

Infrastructure digital twin technology: A new paradigm for future construction industry
The construction industry has traditionally been slow to adopt digital technology, resulting in inefficient workflows, frequent cost overruns, and delays. Moreover, its fragmented structure, inherent to market dynamics, exacerbates these challenges. Embracing digitalization and transitioning to Industry 4.0 can substantially enhance efficiency and productivity in construction through increased innovation and improved collaboration, ultimately reducing information gaps and data discrepancies. This study aims to assess the potential integration of digital twin technology across various construction stages, spanning from initial design to project delivery. Existing literature emphasizes the transformative power of digital twin technology in advancing building innovation and environmental sustainability. These virtual replicas are crucial in optimizing industrial manufacturing by harmonizing production processes and societal interactions. A focused examination of digital twin technology applications in construction highlights its ability to streamline coordination and facilitate data sharing among stakeholders. Property owners increasingly recognise the value of digital twin technology in local contexts, driving the digitization of design and collaboration methods in construction. Integrating digital twin technology right from a project's inception and extending it across design phases optimizes project delivery, enhances asset quality, and contributes to societal sustainability. As the nexus between digitalization and sustainability goals strengthens, the construction industry stands at the cusp of a significant transformative journey. Digital twin; Construction 4.0; Sustainability; Project delivery; Built environment; Construction industry. 

Smart Transportation Systems Machine Learning Application in WSN-Based Digital Twins
This proposed system, smart travel companion, harnesses the power of machine learning within wireless sensor networks (WSN) to create digital twins for intelligent transportation systems. This innovative approach aims to optimize travel experiences by leveraging real-time data from sensors and applying machine learning algorithms. The smart travel companion enhances traffic management, improves safety, and provides personalized recommendations for users. This integration of AI and digital twins promises a more efficient and user-friendly transportation system for the future.

Quality-of-Experience Evaluation for Digital Twins in 6G Network Environments

As wireless technology continues its rapid evolution, the sixth-generation (6G) networks are capable of offering exceptionally high data transmission rates as well as low latency, which is promisingly able to meet the high-demand needs for digital twins (DTs). Quality-of-experience (QoE) in this situation, which refers to the users’ overall satisfaction and perception of the provided DT service in 6G networks, is significant to optimize the service and help improve the users’ experience. Despite progress in developing theories and systems for digital twin transmission under 6G networks, the assessment of QoE for users falls behind. To address this gap, our paper introduces the first QoE evaluation database for human digital twins (HDTs) in 6G network environments, aiming to systematically analyze and quantify the related quality factors. We utilize a mmWave network model for channel capacity simulation and employ high-quality digital humans as source models, which are further animated, encoded, and distorted for final QoE evaluation. Subjective quality ratings are collected from a well-controlled subjective experiment for the 400 generated HDT sequences. Additionally, we propose a novel QoE evaluation metric that considers both quality-of-service (QoS) and content-quality features. Experimental results indicate that our model outperforms existing state-of-the-art QoE evaluation models and other competitive quality assessment models, thus making significant contributions to the domain of 6G network applications for HDTs.

Hybrid disease prediction approach leveraging digital twin and metaverse technologies for health consumer
Emerging from the convergence of digital twin technology and the metaverse, consumer health (MCH) is witnessing a transformative shift. The amalgamation of bioinformatics with healthcare Big Data has ushered in a new era of disease prediction models that harness comprehensive medical data, enabling the anticipation of illnesses even before the onset of symptoms. In this model, deep neural networks stand out because they improve accuracy remarkably by increasing network depth and making weight changes using gradient descent. Nonetheless, traditional methods face their own set of challenges, including the issues of gradient instability and slow training. In this case, the Broad Learning System (BLS) stands out as a good alternative. It gets around the problems with gradient descent and lets you quickly rebuild a model through incremental learning. One problem with BLS is that it has trouble extracting complex features from complex medical data. This makes it less useful in a wide range of healthcare situations. In response to these challenges, we introduce DAE-BLS, a novel hybrid model that marries Denoising AutoEncoder (DAE) noise reduction with the efficiency of BLS. This hybrid approach excels in robust feature extraction, particularly within the intricate and multifaceted world of medical data. Validation using diverse datasets yields impressive results, with accuracies reaching as high as 98.50%. DAE-BLS’s ability to rapidly adapt through incremental learning holds great promise for accurate and agile disease prediction, especially within the complex and dynamic healthcare scenarios of today.

Major opportunities of digital twins for smart buildings: a scientometric and content analysis
Purpose Digital twins provide enormous opportunities for smart buildings. However, an up-to-date intellectual landscape to understand and identify the major opportunities of digital twins for smart buildings is still not enough. This study, therefore, performs an up-to-date comprehensive literature review to identify the major opportunities of digital twins for smart buildings. Design/methodology/approach Scientometric and content analysis are utilised to comprehensively evaluate the intellectual landscape of the general knowledge of digital twins for smart buildings. Findings The study uncovered 24 opportunities that were further categorised into four major opportunities: efficient building performance (smart “building” environment), efficient building process (smart construction site environment), information efficiency and effective user interactions. The study further identified the limitations of the existing studies and made recommendations for future research in the methodology adopted and the research domain. Five research domains were considered for future research, namely “real-time data acquisition, processing and storage”, “security and privacy issues”, “standardised and domain modelling”, “collaboration between the building industry and the digital twin developers” and “skilled workforce to enable a seamless transition from theory to practice”. Practical implications All stakeholders, including practitioners, policymakers and researchers in the field of “architecture, engineering, construction and operations” (AECO), may benefit from the findings of this study by gaining an in-depth understanding of the opportunities of digital twins and their implementation in smart buildings in the AECO industry. The limitations and the possible research directions may serve as guidelines for streamlining the practical adoption and implementation of digital twins for smart buildings. Originality/value This study adopted scientometric and content analysis to comprehensively assess the intellectual landscape of relevant literature and identify four major opportunities of digital twins for smart building, to which scholars have given limited attention. Finally, a research direction framework is presented to address the identified limitations of existing studies and help envision the ideal state of digital twins for smart buildings. Digital twins; Major opportunities; Prospects; Scientometric analysis; Smart buildings.

Leveraging cognitive digital twins in industry 5.0 for achieving sustainable development goal 9: An exploration of inclusive and sustainable industrialization strategies

In the emerging landscape of Industry 5.0, the integration of innovative technologies such as Cognitive Digital Twins (CDTs) is pivotal for steering industrial processes towards sustainability and inclusivity, particularly in developing nations striving to align with Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The study explores the transformative capabilities of CDTs in Industry 5.0, concentrating on India's quest for inclusive and sustainable industrialization in alignment with SDGs. The inclusion of the TOE-HOT framework enriches the research's analytical foundation, providing a nuanced perspective to investigate the multifaceted dynamics of technology, organization, environment, and human aspects within the sphere of industrial evolution. By employing the Best-Worst Method (BWM), Interpretive Structural Modelling (ISM), and MICMAC analysis, the study delves deep into the synergies between industrial strategies, technology, and sustainable development. The findings reveal the paramountcy of the Technological Dimension, emphasizing CDTs strategies like real-time optimization and data analytics, which are instrumental in dynamically adjusting manufacturing processes and fostering alignment with market demands. The research also stresses the roles of various CDTs strategies like strategic alignment, change management, job security, skill augmentation, and environmental compliance in industrial sustainability and inclusivity. The paper concludes with invaluable insights for policymakers, industry leaders, and researchers, emphasizing the necessity for a holistic, interconnected approach to fully harness the potential of CDTs in realizing the aspirations of Industry 5.0 and contributing to India's sustainable industrial advancement by 2030. Industry 5.0; Cognitive digital twins; Sustainable development goals; TOE-HOT framework; BWM; ISM; MICMAC.

Digital twin-based anomaly detection for real-time tool condition monitoring in machining
Real-time tool condition monitoring (TCM) has been emerging as a key technology for smart manufacturing. TCM can improve the dimensional accuracy of products, minimize machine tool downtime, and eliminate scraps and re-work costs. Digital twins offer new opportunities for real-time monitoring of machining processes, which can, in principle, take into account changes in machining processes and operating environments, help understand mechanisms of cutting tool wear, and improve the anomaly detection accuracy and fault diagnosis results. The present study exploits these potential advantages of digital twins and proposes a new digital twin-based anomaly detection framework for real-time TCM in machining. The framework of the digital twin consists of three parts: the physical product, the virtual product and data flow connections. Within this framework of the digital twin, the “physical product” represents the machining processes. The “virtual product” includes a real-time data-driven model representing the dynamic relationship between vibration data measured from machining processes as well as the model frequency features (MFFs)-based diagnostics for cutting tool anomaly detection. The “data flow connections” involve real-time measured vibration data and machine tool numerical controller (NC) signals providing real-time information on machine tool dynamics and various machining processes. The novelty is associated with an innovative integration of real-time data-driven modeling, MFFs extraction, and MFFs and machine tool NC signal-based tool wear diagnostics. This, for the first time, enables the concept of digital twins to be potentially applied to the TCM for complicated dynamic machining processes which, as far as we are aware of, has never been achieved before. Comprehensive field studies have demonstrated the effectiveness of the proposed digital twin-based TCM framework and its potential industrial applications. Digital twin; Tool condition monitoring (TCM); Fault diagnosis; Nonlinear system identification; Nonlinear output frequency response functions (NOFRFs).

Digital twins in city planning
Here, I provide a perspective on digital twins of cities that cover a wide array of different types, ranging from aggregate economic and behavioral processes to more disaggregate agent-based, cellular and micro-simulations. A key element in these applications is the way that we as scientists, policymakers and planners interact with real cities with respect to their understanding, prediction and design. I note a range of spatial models, from analytical simulations of local neighborhoods to large-scale systems of cities and city systems, and briefly describe computational challenges that geospatial applications in cities pose.

Expert Twin: A Digital Twin with an Integrated Fuzzy-Based Decision-Making Module
Digitalization and the application of modern Industry 4.0 solutions are becoming increasingly important to remain competitive as product ranges expand and global supply chains grow. This paper presents a new Digital Twin framework to achieve robustness in manufacturing process optimization and enhance the efficiency of decision support. Most digital twins in the literature synchronously represent the real system without any control elements despite the bidirectional data link. The proposed approach combines the advantages of traditional process simulations with a real-time communication and data acquisition method using programmable logic controllers designed to control automated systems. In addition, it complements this by utilizing human experience and expertise in modeling using Fuzzy Logic to create a control-enabled digital twin system. The resulting "Expert Twin" system reduces the reaction time of the production to unexpected events and increases the efficiency of decision support; it generates and selects alternatives, therefore creating smart manufacturing. The Expert Twin framework was integrated, tested, and validated on an automated production sample system in a laboratory environment. In the experimental scenarios carried out, the method production increased production line utility by up to 28% and the number of re-schedules can be halved.

Game theory in network security for digital twins in industry
To ensure the safe operation of industrial digital twins network and avoid the harm to the system caused by hacker invasion, a series of discussions on network security issues are carried out based on game theory. From the perspective of the life cycle of network vulnerabilities, mining and repairing vulnerabilities are analyzed by applying evolutionary game theory. The evolution process of knowledge sharing among white hats under various conditions is simulated, and a game model of the vulnerability patch cooperative development strategy among manufacturers is constructed. On this basis, the differential evolution is introduced into the update mechanism of the Wolf Colony Algorithm (WCA) to produce better replacement individuals with greater probability from the perspective of both attack and defense. Through the simulation experiment, it is found that the convergence speed of the probability (X) of white Hat 1 choosing the knowledge sharing policy is related to the probability (x0) of white Hat 2 choosing the knowledge sharing policy initially, and the probability (y0) of white hat 2 choosing the knowledge sharing policy initially. When y0 ​= ​0.9, X converges rapidly in a relatively short time. When y0 is constant and x0 is small, the probability curve of the “cooperative development” strategy converges to 0. It is concluded that the higher the trust among the white hat members in the temporary team, the stronger their willingness to share knowledge, which is conducive to the mining of loopholes in the system. The greater the probability of a hacker attacking the vulnerability before it is fully disclosed, the lower the willingness of manufacturers to choose the "cooperative development" of vulnerability patches. Applying the improved wolf colony-co-evolution algorithm can obtain the equilibrium solution of the "attack and defense game model", and allocate the security protection resources according to the importance of nodes. This study can provide an effective solution to protect the network security for digital twins in the industry. Digital twins; Industrial internet of things; Network security; Game theory; Attack and defense

Recent progress and future outlook of digital twins in structural health monitoring of civil infrastructure
Digital twins (DTs) have witnessed a paramount increase in applications in multidisciplinary engineering systems. With advancements in structural health monitoring (SHM) methods and implementations, DT-based maintenance and operation stages have been implemented significantly during the life cycle of civil infrastructure. Recent literature has started laying the building blocks for incorporating the concept of DTs with SHM of large-scale civil infrastructure. This paper undertakes a systematic literature review of studies on DT-related applications for SHM of civil structures. It classifies the articles based on thematic case studies: transportation infrastructure (i.e. bridges, tunnels, roads, and pavements), buildings, off-shore marine infrastructure and wind turbines, and other civil engineering systems. The proposed review is further uniquely sub-classified using diverse modeling approaches such as building information modeling, finite element modeling, 3D representation, and surrogate and hybrid modeling used in DT implementations. This paper is solely focused on applications relating DTs to SHM practices for various civil engineering infrastructures, hence highlighting its novelty over previous reviews. Gaps and limitations emerging from the systematic review are presented, followed by articulating future research directions and key conclusions.











